Chapter 12 Poirot Elucidates Certain Points

“Why did you measure that overcoat?” I asked, with some curiosity, as
we walked down the hot white road at a leisurely pace.

“_Parbleu!___ to see how long it was,” replied my friend imperturbably.

I was vexed. Poirot’s incurable habit of making a mystery out of
nothing never failed to irritate me. I relapsed into silence, and
followed a train of thought of my own. Although I had not noticed them
specially at the time, certain words Mrs. Renauld had addressed to her
son now recurred to me, fraught with a new significance. “So you did
not sail?” she had said, and then had added: “_After all, it does not
matter—now.___”

What had she meant by that? The words were enigmatical—significant. Was
it possible that she knew more than we supposed? She had denied all
knowledge of the mysterious mission with which her husband was to have
entrusted his son. But was she really less ignorant than she pretended?
Could she enlighten us if she chose, and was her silence part of a
carefully thought out and preconceived plan?

The more I thought about it, the more I was convinced that I was right.
Mrs. Renauld knew more than she chose to tell. In her surprise at
seeing her son, she had momentarily betrayed herself. I felt convinced
that she knew, if not the assassins, at least the motive for the
assassination. But some very powerful considerations must keep her
silent.

“You think profoundly, my friend,” remarked Poirot, breaking in upon my
reflections. “What is it that intrigues you so?”

I told him, sure of my ground, though feeling expectant that he would
ridicule my suspicions. But to my surprise he nodded thoughtfully.

“You are quite right, Hastings. From the beginning I have been sure
that she was keeping something back. At first I suspected her, if not
of inspiring, at least of conniving at the crime.”

“You suspected _her?___” I cried.

“But certainly! She benefits enormously—in fact, by this new will, she
is the only person to benefit. So, from the start, she was singled out
for attention. You may have noticed that I took an early opportunity of
examining her wrists. I wished to see whether there was any possibility
that she had gagged and bound herself. _Eh bien___, I saw at once that
there was no fake, the cords had actually been drawn so tight as to cut
into the flesh. That ruled out the possibility of her having committed
the crime single-handed. But it was still possible for her to have
connived at it, or to have been the instigator with an accomplice.
Moreover, the story, as she told it, was singularly familiar to me—the
masked men that she could not recognize, the mention of ‘the secret’—I
had heard, or read, all these things before. Another little detail
confirmed my belief that she was not speaking the truth. _The wrist
watch, Hastings, the wrist watch!___”

Again that wrist watch! Poirot was eyeing me curiously.

“You see, _mon ami?___ You comprehend?”

“No,” I replied with some ill humour. “I neither see nor comprehend.
You make all these confounded mysteries, and it’s useless asking you to
explain. You always like keeping everything up your sleeve to the last
minute.”

“Do not enrage yourself, my friend,” said Poirot with a smile. “I will
explain if you wish. But not a word to Giraud, _c’est entendu?___ He
treats me as an old one of no importance! _We shall see!___ In common
fairness I gave him a hint. If he does not choose to act upon it, that
is his own look out.”

I assured Poirot that he could rely upon my discretion.

“_C’est bien!___ Let us then employ our little grey cells. Tell me, my
friend, at what time, according to you, did the tragedy take place?”

“Why, at two o’clock or thereabouts,” I said, astonished. “You
remember, Mrs. Renauld told us that she heard the clock strike while
the men were in the room.”

“Exactly, and on the strength of that, you, the examining magistrate,
Bex, and every one else, accept the time without further question. But
I, Hercule Poirot, say that Madame Renauld lied. _The crime took place
at least two hours earlier.___”

“But the doctors—”

“They declared, after examination of the body, that death had taken
place between ten and seven hours previously. _Mon ami___, for some
reason, it was imperative that the crime should seem to have taken
place later than it actually did. You have read of a smashed watch or
clock recording the exact hour of a crime? So that the time should not
rest on Mrs. Renauld’s testimony alone, some one moved on the hands of
that wrist watch to two o’clock, and then dashed it violently to the
ground. But, as is often the case, they defeated their own object. The
glass was smashed, but the mechanism of the watch was uninjured. It was
a most disastrous manoeuvre on their part, for it at once drew my
attention to two points—first, that Madame Renauld was lying: secondly,
that there must be some vital reason for the postponement of the time.”

“But what reason could there be?”

“Ah, that is the question! There we have the whole mystery. As yet, I
cannot explain it. There is only one idea that presents itself to me as
having a possible connection.”

“And that is?”

“The last train left Merlinville at seventeen minutes past twelve.”

I followed it out slowly.

“So that, the crime apparently taking place some two hours later, any
one leaving by that train would have an unimpeachable alibi!”

“Perfect, Hastings! You have it!”

I sprang up.

“But we must inquire at the station. Surely they cannot have failed to
notice two foreigners who left by that train! We must go there at
once!”

“You think so, Hastings?”

“Of course. Let us go there now.”

Poirot restrained my ardour with a light touch upon the arm.

“Go by all means if you wish, _mon ami___—but if you go, I should not
ask for particulars of two foreigners.”

I stared, and he said rather impatiently:

“Là, là, you do not believe all that rigmarole, do you? The masked men
and all the rest of _cette histoire-là!___”

His words took me so much aback that I hardly knew how to respond. He
went on serenely:

“You heard me say to Giraud, did you not, that all the details of this
crime were familiar to me? _Eh bien___, that presupposes one of two
things, either the brain that planned the first crime also planned this
one, or else an account read of a _cause célèbre___ unconsciously
remained in our assassin’s memory and prompted the details. I shall be
able to pronounce definitely on that after—” he broke off.

I was revolving sundry matters in my mind.

“But Mr. Renauld’s letter? It distinctly mentions a secret and
Santiago?”

“Undoubtedly there was a secret in M. Renauld’s life—there can be no
doubt of that. On the other hand, the word Santiago, to my mind, is a
red herring, dragged continually across the track to put us off the
scent. It is possible that it was used in the same way on M. Renauld,
to keep him from directing his suspicions into a quarter nearer at
hand. Oh, be assured, Hastings, the danger that threatened him was not
in Santiago, it was near at hand, in France.”

He spoke so gravely, and with such assurance, that I could not fail to
be convinced. But I essayed one final objection:

“And the match and cigarette end found near the body? What of them.”

A light of pure enjoyment lit up Poirot’s face.

“Planted! Deliberately planted there for Giraud or one of his tribe to
find! Ah, he is smart, Giraud, he can do his tricks! So can a good
retriever dog. He comes in so pleased with himself. For hours he has
crawled on his stomach. ‘See what I have found,’ he says. And then
again to me: ‘What do you see here?’ Me, I answer, with profound and
deep truth, ‘Nothing.’ And Giraud, the great Giraud, he laughs, he
thinks to himself, ‘Oh, that he is imbecile, this old one!’ _But we
shall see.…___”

But my mind had reverted to the main facts.

“Then all this story of the masked men—?”

“Is false.”

“What really happened?”

Poirot shrugged his shoulders.

“One person could tell us—Madame Renauld. But she will not speak.
Threats and entreaties would not move her. A remarkable woman that,
Hastings. I recognized as soon as I saw her that I had to deal with a
woman of unusual character. At first, as I told you, I was inclined to
suspect her of being concerned in the crime. Afterwards I altered my
opinion.”

“What made you do that?”

“Her spontaneous and genuine grief at the sight of her husband’s body.
I could swear that the agony in that cry of hers was genuine.”

“Yes,” I said thoughtfully, “one cannot mistake these things.”

“I beg your pardon, my friend—one can always be mistaken. Regard a
great actress, does not her acting of grief carry you away and impress
you with its reality? No, however strong my own impression and belief,
I needed other evidence before I allowed myself to be satisfied. The
great criminal can be a great actor. I base my certainty in this case,
not upon my own impression, but upon the undeniable fact that Mrs.
Renauld actually fainted. I turned up her eyelids and felt her pulse.
There was no deception—the swoon was genuine. Therefore I was satisfied
that her anguish was real and not assumed. Besides, a small additional
point not without interest, it was unnecessary for Mrs. Renauld to
exhibit unrestrained grief. She had had one paroxysm on learning of her
husband’s death, and there would be no need for her to simulate another
such a violent one on beholding his body. No, Mrs. Renauld was not her
husband’s murderess. But why has she lied? She lied about the wrist
watch, she lied about the masked men—she lied about a third thing. Tell
me, Hastings, what is your explanation of the open door?”

“Well,” I said, rather embarrassed, “I suppose it was an oversight.
They forgot to shut it.”

Poirot shook his head, and sighed.

“That is the explanation of Giraud. It does not satisfy me. There is a
meaning behind that open door which for a moment I cannot fathom.”

“I have an idea,” I cried suddenly.

“_A la bonne heure!___ Let us hear it.”

“Listen. We are agreed that Mrs. Renauld’s story is a fabrication. Is
it not possible, then, that Mr. Renauld left the house to keep an
appointment—possibly with the murderer—leaving the front door open for
his return. But he did not return, and the next morning he is found,
stabbed in the back.”

“An admirable theory, Hastings, but for two facts which you have
characteristically overlooked. In the first place, who gagged and bound
Madame Renauld? And why on earth should they return to the house to do
so? In the second place, no man on earth would go out to keep an
appointment wearing his underclothes and an overcoat. There are
circumstances in which a man might wear pajamas and an overcoat—but the
other, never!”

“True,” I said, rather crest-fallen.

“No,” continued Poirot, “we must look elsewhere for a solution of the
open door mystery. One thing I am fairly sure of—they did not leave
through the door. They left by the window.”

“What?”

“Precisely.”

“But there were no footmarks in the flower bed underneath.”

“No—_and there ought to have been.___ Listen, Hastings. The gardener,
Auguste, as you heard him say, planted both those beds the preceding
afternoon. In the one there are plentiful impressions of his big
hobnailed boots—in the other, _none!___ You see? Some one had passed
that way, some one who, to obliterate their footprints, smoothed over
the surface of the bed with a rake.”

“Where did they get a rake?”

“Where they got the spade and the gardening gloves,” said Poirot
impatiently. “There is no difficulty about that.”

“What makes you think that they left that way, though? Surely it is
more probable that they entered by the window, and left by the door.”

“That is possible of course. Yet I have a strong idea that they left by
the window.”

“I think you are wrong.”

“Perhaps, _mon ami___.”

I mused, thinking over the new field of conjecture that Poirot’s
deductions had opened up to me. I recalled my wonder at his cryptic
allusions to the flower bed and the wrist watch. His remarks had seemed
so meaningless at the moment and now, for the first time, I realized
how remarkably, from a few slight incidents, he had unravelled much of
the mystery that surrounded the case. I paid a belated homage to my
friend. As though he read my thoughts, he nodded sagely.

“Method, you comprehend! Method! Arrange your facts. Arrange your
ideas. And if some little fact will not fit in—do not reject it but
consider it closely. Though its significance escapes you, be sure that
it is significant.”

“In the meantime,” I said, considering, “although we know a great deal
more than we did, we are no nearer to solving the mystery of who killed
Mr. Renauld.”

“No,” said Poirot cheerfully. “In fact we are a great deal further
off.”

The fact seemed to afford him such peculiar satisfaction that I gazed
at him in wonder. He met my eye and smiled.

“But yes, it is better so. Before, there was at all events a clear
theory as to how and by whose hands he met his death. Now that is all
gone. We are in darkness. A hundred conflicting points confuse and
worry us. That is well. That is excellent. Out of confusion comes forth
order. But if you find order to start with, if a crime seems simple and
above-board, _eh bien, méfiez vous!___ It is, how do you say
it?—_cooked!___ The great criminal is simple—but very few criminals
_are___ great. In trying to cover up their tracks, they invariably
betray themselves. Ah, _mon ami___, I would that some day I could meet
a really great criminal—one who commits his crime, and then—does
nothing! Even I, Hercule Poirot, might fail to catch such a one.”

But I had not followed his words. A light had burst upon me.

“Poirot! Mrs. Renauld! I see it now. She must be shielding somebody.”

From the quietness with which Poirot received my remark, I could see
that the idea had already occurred to him.

“Yes,” he said thoughtfully. “Shielding some one—or screening some one.
One of the two.”

I saw very little difference between the two words, but I developed my
theme with a good deal of earnestness. Poirot maintained a strictly
non-committal attitude, repeating:

“It may be—yes, it may be. But as yet I do not know! There is something
very deep underneath all this. You will see. Something very deep.”

Then, as we entered our hotel, he enjoined silence on me with a
gesture.