CHAPTER VIII

The 6:55 Carries a Trio of Distinction

Peter Daventry glanced at the clock on Paddington platform. He saw
with undisguised relief that he was a good quarter of an hour to the
good. “Curse this beastly wrist-watch,” he muttered to himself—“it
gets worse every day—fairly put the wind up me that time.” He walked
to the platform indicator—digested the information thereon applicable
to the 6:55—“Didcot, Wantage Rd., Assynton”—and drifted over to the
appropriate platform. Arrived there, he scanned the horizon for
Anthony Bathurst. The platform was pretty crowded and he could not see
the man he wanted. It was unlike Bathurst to arrive at 6:45 for 6:55.
He argued that it was a sheer waste of very valuable minutes. Daventry
commenced his second tour up the platform when a voice at his shoulder
jolted his equilibrium and suddenly brought him to a standstill.

“Good evening, Mr. Daventry.” Detective-Inspector Goodall smiled
genially and extended what looked like an amicable hand. “Going to try
the Berkshire air?”

Peter gasped feebly but retained sufficient presence of mind to grasp
the extended hand—mechanically it must be admitted. Goodall clasped it
warmly, but Peter could almost feel the handcuffs on his wrists.
“Y—es. I’m going down to Assynton.” Then his indignation mastered his
surprise and his resentment. “But why the devil are you trailing _me_,
Inspector—for it’s pretty evident you _are_ trailing me,” he concluded
with asperity.

“Not on your life, Mr. Daventry,” replied Goodall—the picture of
unruffled imperturbability. “You mustn’t get jumpy like that—or I
shall begin to suspect you after all.” He smiled again.

“Well then, it’s a wonderful coincidence to meet you here,” remarked
Peter ruefully.

“Not so wonderful—if you think for a moment.” Peter’s face cleared
magically.

“Ass that I am,” he declared. “You’re bound for the same destination,
of course.”

“Now we’re talking,” said Goodall. “The local people down at Assynton
have asked ‘the Yard’ to take a look at things down there—just at the
very moment, too, when we at ‘the Yard’ were trying to piece the two
murders together, somehow! I’m going down. But what about you, Mr.
Daventry?”

“I’m representing my firm—Mr. Stewart’s son has asked me to run down.”

“How about a nice compartment, then, with a couple of corner seats?
This train isn’t a ‘corridor,’ worse luck.”

“Well—as a matter of fact”—temporized Peter—“I’m waiting for
somebody!”

Goodall instantly became all interest. “Really? I had no idea—you wish
to be alone?”

Peter denied the idea strenuously—feeling all the time that he was
heading straight for the Valley of Suspicion again. “Not at all. Only
too pleased to travel with you, Inspector. I’m sure my friend will
be——”

“Delighted,” said Anthony Bathurst. “Introduce me, Daventry, will
you?”

Peter accepted the invitation gladly. He was downright pleased that
Bathurst had turned up when he did. This fellow Goodall seemed to know
a jolly sight more about a chap than was thoroughly comfortable. He
was curious to see how Anthony Bathurst would be affected by
Detective-Inspector Goodall. He made the introduction.

“I am honored,” remarked Bathurst. “Scotland Yard must consider the
Assynton Lodge murder as extremely ‘difficult’ for it to engage the
attention of Inspector Goodall.”

He bowed to the Inspector, who, however, seemed impervious to the
compliment.

“You flatter me, Mr. Bathurst,” was his rejoinder. He turned to
Daventry. “We’d better get in—if we don’t want to be left behind.”

“On the contrary,” smiled Bathurst—entering the compartment last of
the three—“I paid you a compliment. Flattery is merely a counterfeit
business. A flatterer usually seeks to gain favor—a compliment is a
tribute made to ability by reason of recognition.”

Goodall melted a trifle. “Thank you,” he yielded. The train glided out
of the station and they settled down more comfortably. The flamboyant
beauty of the June day was dying hard in a glorious evening. As they
approached the first fringes of the countryside and caught the
wonderful streaks of the westering sun flung over copse, wood and
water—flooding the tranquillity of green and white with red-gold
radiance—the tragic nature of their journey seemed to grow more remote
in the minds of the three of them. Anthony waved his hand at the
country decorated so beautifully.

“Look at it, gentlemen,” he exclaimed. “We shall be too busy during
the next two or three days to think of beauty—murder’s a
soul-destroying business—let us enjoy it while we may!”

Goodall looked across the carriage with raised eyebrows. “We?”—he
questioned.

Peter dashed in courageously. “Mr. Bathurst is also coming down at
young Stewart’s request,” he volunteered. “He’s in a bit of a fix, I
think, new to England and all that, you know—he feels he wants a sort
of steadying hand.” He beamed at Goodall—guilelessly.

But it was unnecessary. “The usual term, I believe, Mr. Daventry, is
to watch a person’s interests.” Goodall appeared to be on the frigid
side.

“I would have preferred to have had a look at the case from
the Galleries murder end, Inspector, but Fate has decreed
otherwise—however, it may be all for the best.”

Goodall’s face again registered surprise. “You seem remarkably well
informed, Mr. Bathurst——”

Anthony raised an explanatory hand. “Mr. Daventry has posted me pretty
soundly, thank you. He interviewed me this afternoon. I understand the
main facts of the case are these.” He gave a brief but explicit resumé
of the affair as it had been presented to him. “That’s about all, I
fancy, Inspector?” He looked at Goodall for corroboration.

Now Goodall could have supplemented Bathurst’s information with one or
two additional facts, which was precisely what Mr. Bathurst intended
should happen. But the Inspector was not yet quite certain of his
bearings and Mr. Bathurst’s exposition of the facts had been
sufficiently masterly to prompt him to refrain. He gave Bathurst a
confirmatory nod and said nothing.

“At any rate,” proceeded Anthony—“we are fortunate in one respect—that
is to say from the standpoint of investigation. With regard to the
first murder we do know the motive.”

“The first murder?” queried Goodall. “Which of the two was that—I
should be pleased to know?”

Anthony smiled. “I was not referring to the order in which the two men
were murdered—although I appreciate your point. At the moment I don’t
know when Stewart was killed. All I know is that he was found dead
this morning. By the term ‘the first murder’ I meant the murder
of Mason, the night-watchman. It was the first of which I heard.
It was the first of which you heard. It happened in London, where
we live. Cigarette, Inspector? You, Daventry?” They accepted his
invitation—Goodall a little nettled. He had provoked an encounter and
chosen his weapons, but had not been brilliantly successful. But he
had the sense to accept what Anthony had said.

“Quite right, Mr. Bathurst. I just wanted to make sure. I rather
believe in making sure, you know—I tested _your_ alibi, by the way,
Mr. Daventry, this afternoon.”

Peter grinned. “Well—and how was it? I’ll guarantee you couldn’t shake
it.”

“I’m not going to arrest you—sit still!” He leaned over to Bathurst
with his elbows on his knees.

“You reckon then we know the motive for the Hanover Galleries job?”

“Well, it’s pretty plain, I should say. Possession of the Stuart
antiques—robbery! Which makes it a clean-cut case! This end we aren’t
so well off.” He looked at Goodall with that humorous twist to his
mouth that his friends knew so well. When they saw it they knew that
things were running pretty smoothly. “To know the motive of any crime
gives you a flying start, Inspector.” He tossed his cigarette end
through the window.

Goodall scratched his chin, reflectively. “That’s all very well, as
far as it goes. Robbery—you say, for possession of the Stuart
antiques. Worth what? I’m not an expert—but for the sake of argument
we’ll put it at a matter of hundreds. And we sha’n’t be so very far
out, at that! Now, Mr. Bathurst, what was there so peculiarly
attractive about these antiques—or about one of them—to spell Mason’s
murder?” He leaned forward still further in his seat and his voice cut
across the compartment quietly insistent and definitely certain. “To
kill Laurence Stewart? To send you—and you—and me, to Assynton, on a
summer evening—_wondering_! Eh, Mr. Bathurst—tell me that!” His eyes
blazed with a mingled excitement and determination, as he watched his
_vis-à-vis_. Bathurst rubbed his hands, appreciatively!

“Excellent, Inspector, excellent. That’s a question that I should very
much like to be able to answer.”

“Which of the antiques, Mr. Bathurst? Which one? And not a clue that
you can call a clue as to where they’ve gone—except a sneezing woman,”
he remarked semi-humorously.

“Tell me,” said Anthony, “I’m interested.” He listened carefully
while Goodall—despite his opposite intention when the journey
started—related the trenchant evidence of Edward Druce—night-watchman.

“So they were at the Hanover Galleries at midnight, were they? That’s
important! That gives us a definite time-anchor.” He spoke to Goodall
with decision. “I think with you, Inspector Goodall, that the two
cases are connected without a doubt. But it’s a mistake to theorize
without data—let’s wait till we pick up the threads a bit this end. As
you say—which one of the three antiques were they after? It’s as bad
as ‘finding the lady’—with Mary, Queen of Scots, as the lady.”

He grinned at Daventry, who had been following the interchange of
ideas with the keenest possible attention. Suddenly Peter slapped his
thigh with excitement.

“By Jove!” he cried, “Mary, Queen of Scots—that reminds me—what an
idiot I’ve been not to tell you before.”

Then he paused with a hint of apology. “So much has happened since,
that it has been driven completely out of my mind.”

“You become more interesting hourly, Daventry,” remarked Anthony. “Out
with it, whatever it is—before you forget it again.” Peter waved the
sarcasm aside.

“It’s a pretty trivial matter,” he commenced, “but I know you ‘sleuth’
people always like to hear full particulars about everything—the usual
phraseology is ‘no matter how unimportant it may seem’”—he
grinned—then went on again. “You observe, of course, that I have read
several detective stories!” Goodall wrinkled his nose somewhat
contemptuously. But Peter was perfectly hardened against that kind of
discouragement. “When Linnell and I first heard from Stewart about the
purchase of these antiques it was arranged between the two of us that
I should pop along to Day, Forshaw and Palmers’ to have a squint at
the stuff. Well, I did so—on my way I blew in to the ‘Violette’ for a
mouthful of grub. While I was there I ran into a pal of mine—Marriott,
by name—we got gassing to each other about the usual thousand and one
things. Well—I’m afraid I’m telling this pretty badly”—Goodall’s face
was a study—“but sitting at the next table were a man and a woman. I
noticed them particularly for two reasons. Firstly the ‘Violette’ was
comparatively deserted—it was early, you see—and secondly they seemed
to be having a ‘powwow’ of some importance to them. They were just an
ordinary looking couple—scarcely anything distinctive about them—no
help for you there, Inspector. Well, I made an inane sort of remark to
old Marriott and he replied—as idiots will—‘Queen Anne’s dead.’ Then I
did a mad sort of thing—I’d been thinking of Mary, Queen of Scots, all
the morning—at any rate since getting Stewart’s jolly old letter—and
some inexplicable imp of mischief made me say, ‘So’s Mary, Queen of
Scots.’” He stopped again to see the effect he was producing upon his
companions. Each was listening in his own way. Goodall’s slightly
cavalier attitude had relaxed somewhat, and Anthony was giving him
that nonchalant attention that he employed to mask unusual mental
activity. Peter let his words sink in. “Directly I said it, the chap
at the next table seemed—mind you, I only say ‘seemed’—to give a
sudden sort of start. He swept round in his chair and sent the cruet
and all its contents flying on to the floor—three bags full.” He
shrugged his shoulders. “Of course I can’t swear that it was what I
said that had poked the gust up him, but it did seem like it to me,
gentlemen.”

“What happened then?” cut in Goodall.

“Nothing much,” answered Peter—“the waiters rushed to repair the
damage—that was all.”

“H’m,” commented the Inspector. “I know Lironi, the proprietor of the
‘Violette,’ pretty well. If I think it important enough I could see
him—he might know something about them—they might be fairly regular
customers of his. It depends on what I strike down here in Berkshire.”
He looked across at Bathurst, who was sitting with his head sunk on
one shoulder. Suddenly the latter sat up.

“What did the woman do, Daventry—anything noticeable?”

“Well, there again—it’s hard to say, definitely. But in my opinion she
was pretty savage about the incident. She certainly tried to joke it
off to the waiters, but I’m fairly confident she chewed the merchant’s
ear off a bit—looked to me like it,” he affirmed.

Bathurst nodded. “I thought perhaps the truest indication of the value
of the incident might be supplied by the conduct of the woman.” He
spoke to Inspector Goodall. “Sherlock Holmes has laid it down,
Inspector, that in moments of sudden alarm and anxiety, a single woman
rushes for her jewel case—a married woman for her baby. This incident
throws a further light on the question. It may be added now that the
married woman on occasion gives her husband wordy castigation—as the
present-day ‘argot’ would put it—she ‘ticks him off’!” He smiled.
“Don’t you think so?”

“I don’t know that this particular pair represented husband and wife,
Mr. Bathurst,” protested Goodall.

“I wouldn’t bank on the marriage certificate, myself, Inspector,”
returned Anthony. “But there is just this to be said for what Daventry
has told us. A woman crops up in two of our little scenes. There’s a
woman in this incident and there’s the woman whose thirst for
information took her to Day, Forshaw and Palmers’ at the identical
moment when Mason and Druce, the two night-watchmen, were changing
shifts.” He thought for a moment or two. “It’s certainly a point to be
considered,” he concluded.

“There aren’t many ‘crooks’ that haven’t a woman in tow, nowadays,”
declared Goodall. “The equality of the sexes has become very
far-reaching. Still it’s deuced smart work for the same gang to have
pulled off both these jobs—I can’t quite take that in myself—not yet.”

“Who’s in charge of the case down here?” queried Anthony. “Anybody
you’ve run against before?”

Goodall shook his head. “A Sergeant Clegg was called to Assynton Lodge
this morning—he’s the local man—he’s at Assynton. They ’phoned to ‘the
Yard’ this afternoon—felt the case was a nasty one—likely to prove too
big for friend Clegg. When the news reached me I told our people of
Mr. Linnell’s information which seemed to link up the two cases, and
it was decided then and there that I should come down.” He rubbed his
cheek with his forefinger. “About twenty-four hours late,” he murmured
as a kind of afterthought. “The scent cold—another man—possibly with
an assistant or two—done his best to destroy most of the things that
might help one—talk about ‘locking the door behind the stolen
steed’—can you beat it?”

“Not too helpful, I admit, Inspector,” argued Anthony. “Still, even
now there may be something to pick up—you never know—there’s always
the ‘human element’ to be considered in every case.”

“All murderers don’t make glaring mistakes, Mr. Bathurst, don’t you
run away with that idea—if they did—Scotland Yard would have precious
few failures to record. Take my advice—don’t you go relying on the
human element for mistakes—_always_.” He took his hat from the rack
and put it on his head. “I fancy we’re running into Assynton.” He
looked at his watch. “A little matter of four minutes late!”

Anthony uncoiled his length from the seat. “I didn’t mean that,
Inspector! By the ‘human element’ I meant the people in the case—the
circle round the dead man—the people we shall encounter—there’s always
the factor of their personal psychologies. Do you follow me?”

Goodall grunted as the train drew up. Darkness was beginning to
suggest itself. A heavy figure emerged from the recesses of the
booking office and presented itself to them—semi-important, yet at the
same time—semi-apologetic.

“Detective-Inspector Goodall?” he inquired.

“That’s me,” replied Goodall. “And you?” He peered forward at the man
that had met him.

“Sergeant Clegg, Inspector.” He saluted. “And downright glad to see
you.”

“Thank you,” said Inspector Goodall.



CHAPTER IX

Mr. Bathurst Opens His Bedroom Door

Inspector Goodall motioned towards Anthony and Peter. “These two
gentlemen have traveled down with me, Sergeant Clegg. They have been
sent for by Mr. Charles Stewart.”

He introduced them. Sergeant Clegg was visibly impressed. “Pleased to
meet you, gentlemen,” he announced—“though it’s a sad business, to be
sure, that has thrown us together.” He turned to the Inspector. “I’ve
taken the trouble to book a room for you, Inspector, at the ‘Red
Dolphin’—quite an excellent place. What will you do—go straight there
for now, and start work in the morning, or would you prefer to get
into your stride at once?” He looked somewhat anxiously at Goodall as
though he attached very great importance to his decision.

“Tell me, first of all, what you’ve done, Clegg,” said the Inspector.

“I was called to the case this morning, Inspector, and I interviewed
everybody that might be termed ‘principals’—you shall have their facts
almost verbatim—I’ve been polishing ’em up from my note-book. I’ve had
‘photos’ taken this afternoon of the body and of the library
generally, so that poor Mr. Stewart could be taken away—and I’ve had
the room fixed and fastened so that nobody can get into it.” He
breathed heavily—weighed down with an acute sense of his
responsibility. Goodall’s reply transported him.

“Excellent, Clegg,” he declared, “excellent. I’m for the ‘Red Dolphin’
and supper, bed and breakfast.”

“Very good, Inspector! What time shall I see you in the morning,
then?”

“I’ll be along directly after breakfast—say about half-past nine. I
shall probably do much better if I approach the case in the first
place with a mind refreshed from a good night’s rest than if I were to
commence right now—make it half-past nine, then, Clegg.”

He turned to Anthony and Peter Daventry. “You two gentlemen are going
to the Lodge now, of course. Good-night. I shall see you in the
morning, too.”

The three shook hands, and Goodall and Clegg swung off to the delights
afforded by the hospitality of the “Red Dolphin.” Bathurst pointed to
a smart car that was drawn up in the station-yard.

“Ours—I think, Daventry,” he said. An equally smart chauffeur swung
from the driver’s seat and touched his cap.

“Assynton Lodge, sir?” he inquired of Bathurst.

They entered and the car purred its way to its destination. It was not
long before they found themselves sweeping up the drive that took them
to the main entrance.

“Nine minutes’ run,” announced Bathurst. Charles Stewart met them in
the hall.

“I got your telegram, Mr. Daventry,” he said, “and I’ve arranged for
dinner to be served for you directly you are ready.”

“Thanks—that’s extremely good of you,” responded Peter, “and I’m sure
you’ll be pleased to hear that I’ve been able to bring somebody with
me—as you suggested—this gentleman is Mr. Anthony Bathurst. He will be
pleased to help you in any way whatever.”

“It’s a great relief to know that,” replied Stewart. “Butterworth”—he
turned to the butler—“show these gentlemen to their rooms—you’re on
the second floor,” he explained. Butterworth carried out his
instructions quietly and efficiently. “Dinner will be served in half
an hour, gentlemen,” he announced.

“I have arranged that we three dine alone,” said Stewart upon their
return. “Miss Lennox—my late father’s ward—has a bad headache and begs
to be excused, and Mr. Llewellyn, my father’s secretary, dined earlier
as he is very busy. My father’s sudden and tragic death has entailed,
as you may guess, a tremendous amount of important correspondence.”
His fingers drummed on the table-cloth. “My father’s solicitors are
Messrs. Crake and Ferguson, of New York. I have had a cable sent to
them to-day—till I hear from them I don’t exactly know how matters
altogether stand financially.”

Peter Daventry expressed his sympathy.

“Mr. Stewart,” said Bathurst, “I am delighted to take this case for
you—though, of course, very sincerely deploring the sad circumstances
and your own personal loss. If it isn’t asking too much of you—would
you be good enough to tell me all you know of the facts of the
case—take your own time and tell me entirely in your own way?”

“Before you start, Mr. Stewart,” intervened Peter, impetuously, “have
you heard of the other——” but a well-directed kick on the shin from
Bathurst under the table dried up the torrent of his information quite
abruptly but most effectively.

“Don’t worry Mr. Stewart, Daventry,” said Anthony gravely. “Let him
tell us as I suggested.”

Stewart proceeded to tell the story of his father’s death. Soon came
Bathurst’s first interruption.

“You say that when you burst open the door the key was in the lock on
the inside and also that the French doors were shut and bolted?”
Anthony leaned forward across the dinner table and pointed his query
with keen interest.

“Yes, Mr. Bathurst. Extraordinary though it may sound—the facts were
so.”

Anthony rubbed his hands together. “Most interesting,” he muttered,
“most interesting. Go on.”

“My poor father,” continued Stewart with evident distress, “was seated
in his chair at his desk-table—his head on his hands—his skull badly
smashed—he had been dead some hours—struck down in some foul,
dastardly way from behind.” He stopped and tried to control his
feelings, which were obviously beginning to master him. After a short
interval of silence—sympathetically observed by the two others—he
continued again. “Apparently he had been writing when he was attacked,
for a pen had almost fallen from his hand and on the desk in front of
him lay a sheet of note-paper. On it had been written the words,
‘Urgent in the morning, M. L.’”

Anthony shot his second question across to the speaker. “In your
father’s handwriting, Mr. Stewart?”

“Beyond doubt, Mr. Bathurst.” Anthony waved to him to proceed.

“In the left-hand pocket of my father’s dressing-gown was his
revolver—loaded in five chambers only. None of us can remember hearing
a shot during the night, so that we don’t know when the one shot was
fired—in the night or on some previous occasion.”

Anthony stopped him with his hand uplifted.

“One minute, Mr. Stewart. Was it your father’s habit to carry firearms
in the pocket of his dressing-gown? Have you ever known him to do it?
Think carefully—this is most important.”

“Well, of course, naturally, I don’t sleep with my father—I rarely see
him after he has retired for the night—but I certainly wasn’t aware
that he made a habit of carrying a revolver. It doesn’t surprise me,
though, to know that he had a revolver pretty handy, because we house
a number of very valuable things here—still—I’ll say this—I’ve never
seen him with a revolver in his hand.”

Anthony accepted the statement—then followed up with another question.
“Your father was a right-handed man, of course, Mr. Stewart?”

“Yes. Always. Doctor Gunner gave it as his opinion that he had been
dead about twelve hours. That wasn’t quite possible, as he was alive
at ten o’clock last night.”

“Who saw him?”

Stewart hesitated for a moment. “Two of us here can prove that my
father was alive round about ten o’clock last night. I spoke to him
about a quarter to ten, and Butterworth, the butler, spoke to him a
few minutes after ten. My father gave Butterworth instructions to lock
up about that time.” Bathurst nodded.

“I see. So Butterworth was the last person to see your father alive—as
far as is known?”

“Yes. A Colonel Leach-Fletcher dined here with my father last night.
Butterworth saw him out about ten. When I spoke to my father at
nine-forty-five the Colonel was with him then, in the library.”

“An old friend of your father’s, I presume—I understand from Mr.
Daventry here that it was on Colonel Leach-Fletcher’s recommendation
that your father got into touch with his firm?”

“I believe that is so, Mr. Bathurst—but I should hesitate before I
described the Colonel as an old friend of my father’s—his friendship
only dates back to the time when we first came here.”

Anthony pulled at his lower lip with his thumb and forefinger. Had
Daventry known him better he would have understood from this gesture
that certain features of the problem were worrying him. Then suddenly
his face betrayed eagerness.

“Three more questions, Mr. Stewart, if you’ll pardon me. This sheet of
note-paper found under your father’s hand—the writing on it—if my
memory serves me correctly—was ‘Urgent in the morning—M. L.’—I am
right, am I not?” He looked at Stewart. The latter nodded. Anthony
went straight on. “This ‘M. L.’—the initials probably of somebody or
something—I’ve been wondering about them. You mentioned just now, Mr.
Stewart, two other members of your father’s household—a Miss Lennox,
his ward, and a Mr. Llewellyn, his secretary. I feel bound to ask you
if the Christian name of either of these two people begins with
‘M’—yes.” He fingered the stem of his champagne glass with undisguised
approval—then carefully watched the face of his young host while he
awaited his answer.

“Very curiously, Mr. Bathurst, both Mr. Llewellyn and Miss Lennox have
those initials—Miss Lennox is ‘Marjorie’ and Llewellyn is ‘Morgan.’”
He spoke with apparent composure, but Peter Daventry—most interested
of spectators—was not quite sure that some, at least, of the unconcern
was not deliberately assumed. He began to wonder why. Who was who in
this house upon which such a tragic shadow had been cast? What dark
passions had been loosed but a few hours since that had meant death,
sudden and terrible, for an unsuspecting victim? What was Bathurst’s
opinion? What was he thinking? Had he noticed Stewart’s counterfeit
composure? Bathurst, however, appeared to be tremendously interested.
He lifted his eyebrows at the piquancy of the situation as revealed to
him.

“Really?” he said. “We are confronted with two ‘M. L.’s’ then. Now
that’s distinctly fascinating.” He paused. “Was it a message, Mr.
Stewart, do you think, to either of them—or even——” he stopped and
pondered—eyes narrowed.

“A message or an instruction, Mr. Bathurst, would almost certainly
affect Llewellyn, Mr. Bathurst—I think we may safely discard any idea
of Miss Lennox being implicated.” He spoke quite quietly, but yet
Peter Daventry fell to introspection once again. He felt certain that
he was able to detect a tinge of anxiety in the voice—almost, in fact,
that in what Stewart had said the wish had been father to the thought.
But Bathurst, to all appearances, accepted the situation as Stewart
had presented it. He went to another question.

“You stated a little while since that your father had a number of
valuable things in the house. Quite a natural thing for a man of his
wealth, of course. Has anything been stolen? Anything missed?”

Stewart shook his head in denial of the idea. “As far as we know, Mr.
Bathurst—_nothing_ has been taken. Certainly no money has been stolen.
My father’s personal jewelry is in his bedroom—untouched—just where he
left it.”

Anthony thought for a moment. “Papers! Documents! Was there any
evidence that anything of that nature had been taken from the library?
Did any drawers appear to have been ransacked?”

“There were no signs of disorder in the library at all. Everything
there seemed quite normal.”

But Bathurst persisted. “Your father’s collection, Mr. Stewart—that
was very valuable, I believe. Have steps been taken to see that this
is intact? Where is the collection kept?”

“In what we call the Museum Room—next to the library. I don’t know
that it occurred to me—or even to any of us—to go in there—there was
no connection you see.” He looked across at Anthony.

“Is the Museum Room kept locked?” demanded the latter.

“Not necessarily during the day,” came the answer. “My father might be
in and out several times during an ordinary day—he might even have
been in there last night with Colonel Leach-Fletcher for all we know.
Butterworth will be able to tell us,” he concluded, rather lamely,
Daventry thought, “we can ask Butterworth if he locked the Museum Room
when he locked up last night.”

“You don’t mind if I smoke?” put in Bathurst. “The key of this Museum
Room now—where would it be kept—in the door?” He lit his cigarette,
and tossed the match into an ash-tray.

“No—I don’t think so. In fact, I’m sure not. The key of a room like
that would be hung up each night in Butterworth’s service-room. He
would unlock the room some time during the following morning.”

“So that we may say—anybody had access to it—knowing that the key was
kept there?”

“I suppose so,” replied Stewart. “But I’m quite certain the Museum
Room door was shut all right when the alarm was given this morning.”
He sat back in his chair firmly as though to give point to his words.

“That’s pretty conclusive then,” admitted Anthony. “Still—I think
we’ll have a look at this Museum Room—nevertheless! You see it might
supply that motive I’m looking for.” He rubbed his chin with his
finger. “Otherwise——”

Stewart rose from his chair at the head of the table. “Would you care
to come and look now, Mr. Bathurst?”

Anthony motioned him back again. “In the morning, Mr. Stewart, in the
morning. That will be time enough. Tell me—I’m rather curious to
know—the point is of extreme importance—have you any list or catalogue
of your father’s collection?”

Stewart looked somewhat surprised. “It would be some task for you to
go through all the things in the Museum Room, Mr. Bathurst—but I
believe I am right in saying that Llewellyn has compiled something in
the way of a catalogue. You shall see a copy in the morning, if you
would care to.”

“I should—very much,” responded Anthony. “I have just the glimmering
of an idea—that’s all—and I think it’s just possible the catalogue may
help me.” He looked at Daventry, who had been trying hard to follow
him—unsuccessfully.

“What started you off?” inquired Peter—“that key of the Museum Room
business? Personally, I can’t see anything much——”

Bathurst interrupted. “No—not that, Daventry. I happened to be
thinking about ‘M. L.’—that was all.” He rubbed his hands as the idea
took shape. “And I’ll lay a guinea to a gooseberry,” he proceeded,
“that I’m ‘warm’ as the youngsters say. If I’m not—well, then, we
shall have to start all over again.”

He smiled at his two companions. “But we sha’n’t have to. You see.”

Stewart did not appear to share this piece of optimism—he shook his
head rather hopelessly, but Peter Daventry remembered the judgment of
his brother Gerald and was able to catch something of the Bathurst
tradition.

“One last question,” said Anthony. “What was the opinion of the
Sergeant who came along this morning about the weapon with which the
crime was committed? Did he have any ideas about that, do you know?
Did he seem confident of making any arrest?”

Stewart dismissed the suggestion immediately it was made. “I was quite
unimpressed by him. In fact that was the chief reason why I asked Mr.
Daventry’s people to help me and why I suggested Scotland Yard could
do worse than have a look at things. I don’t think he formed any ideas
about the crime at all! The question you have just raised about the
weapon that was used puzzled the Sergeant, I should say, from my
observation of him, pretty considerably. There wasn’t a trace of
anything!” He seemed to have almost reached his limit of physical
endurance, and Anthony was quick to detect it.

“Daventry,” he said, “I’m afraid I haven’t shown Mr. Stewart too much
consideration—he’s worn out, and I must leave any further questions
till to-morrow morning.” He glanced at his wrist-watch. “It’s well
past ten and we’re all tired. A good night’s rest will do us all
good.” He rose and walked across to his young host with outstretched
hand. “Good-night, Mr. Stewart, and my most sincere sympathy! I know
it’s easy to say that, but I’ll say something else as well.” He paused
for a second and his jaw set with the lines of indomitable purpose. “I
have every hope, even at this early stage of the case, of getting the
handcuffs on the right wrists—which should comfort you a little!”

Stewart was very pale when he answered, and his answer was brief.
“Thank you, Mr. Bathurst. Good-night!”

Peter added his salutations and they made their way upstairs.

“No need to trouble Butterworth,” exclaimed Anthony, “we know our
rooms. Here’s mine—there’s yours, Daventry. Good-night!”

Anthony walked to the window and opened it. He was fond of darkness
and it was just beginning to get dark. Darkness and its attendant
tranquillity he always found invaluable conditions for the process of
concentration—he had often discovered the solution to a mystifying
problem out of this communion. He smoked a cigarette through and lit
another. “What was it,” he said to himself as he stood there by the
open window, “that caused Stewart to come downstairs and enter the
library? What happened in the library to make him scrawl the message
that he described as ‘urgent’?” He commenced a third cigarette. “And
who trod softly behind as he sat there writing—and killed him?” He
undressed and got into bed. “A pretty little problem—especially when
we think of the Hanover Galleries affair on top.” That was his last
conscious thought before he slept. He had the knack of getting to
sleep almost instantaneously and also the complementary faculty of
awaking at the slightest sound. He was destined to awake suddenly that
night. And he knew instantly and instinctively what had awakened him—a
stealthy step had gone past his bedroom door—he was certain of it! He
looked at the luminous face of his wrist-watch. “Twenty-two minutes
past one,” he muttered. “Not an ordinary time for legitimate
night-wanderings.” He tiptoed to his bedroom door and drew it
very slightly ajar; then listened intently for what seemed like
ages. It was very quiet beneath him. Had the step been on its
way back? Suddenly he heard a sound that sent his heart racing
perilously—somebody was ascending the stairs! He shut the door
silently and held the handle tight. The step passed—almost
noiselessly. Anthony waited a second, then pulled his door gently
open, and looked out on to the corridor. He was just able to
distinguish the figure of a man, entering the room next but one. A
man—slim and of good height. Judged by his walk—comparatively young.
Anthony whistled very softly, as he sat on the side of his bed to
think things over. “Now, who the devil was that?” he muttered, “and
why does he wander o’ nights?” In the morning at breakfast his first
query was answered.

“Let me introduce you,” said Charles Stewart. “Mr. Bathurst—Mr. Morgan
Llewellyn—my late father’s secretary.”



CHAPTER X

The Incident of the Boot-Boy’s Bicycle

Mr. Bathurst bowed his acknowledgment. And at the same time felt that
matters were progressing. Progressing, perhaps, a trifle _too_
quickly, and at a rate that, to a less alert intelligence than Mr.
Bathurst’s, might prove extremely disconcerting. Under cover of a few
casual and perfunctory remarks he studied Llewellyn carefully and at
the same time reviewed the events of the morning. For Mr. Bathurst had
been up betimes. The music of the Berkshire birds had been his first
consciousness of this glorious morning. He had risen to the “Te Deum”
of the bird-choir and had joined with them in a thanksgiving for “the
immaculate hours”; and when he found himself downstairs his watch
showed the time to be a few minutes past seven. He made his way into
the garden and marveled at the magic of the morning. What was the
geography of the library in relation to the garden? Passing through a
charming rockery with a fountain plashing deliciously in the center of
a clear-watered pool, he came on to a stretch of perfectly kept grass
that stretched almost to the French doors of the library itself. Under
the morning sun this patch of exquisite emerald seemed fit for the
flying feet of angels. Anthony retraced his steps—he would leave the
library question till he could get inside to have a look properly. He
strolled through the rockery, then turned and came out on to the road.
He would have a walk before breakfast, for a thought was beginning to
take shape within his brain. He cut along briskly and soon discovered
that he was descending the hill to Assynton village. At the foot of
the hill on the fringe of Assynton itself, he stopped. It was an iron
foundry that claimed his attention, for Mr. Bathurst had always been
intrigued by the industry of the early morning. The clang of the
hammers was as music to his ear. To him it represented one of the real
essences of England—there were others—a barge moving steadily on a
canal—the scraping of a bricklayer’s trowel—a fishing fleet standing
in to the harbor heavy with the fruit of its toil—all of them tingling
as it were—with the impetus of the newness of the morning. These
things to Anthony Bathurst meant much. He listened as the clanging
quivered incessantly on the almost virgin stillness of the June air.
Suddenly he noticed a man signaling to him from the open door.
Bathurst turned into the yard and approached him. A magnificent man,
with a sweeping breadth of shoulder, came out of the foundry and stood
waiting. His black eyes sparkled genially and he pulled at a bushy
black beard as Anthony came up. He must have stood at least six feet
two, and his leathern apron became him handsomely. He touched his
forehead.

“Beggin’ your pardon, sir, for takin’ what may appear a liberty. But I
should like a word with you, sir.” He looked behind him somewhat
anxiously, then drew Bathurst a few yards farther away from the
foundry door. “If I’m not mistaken, sir, aren’t you one of the
gentlemen what’s lookin’ into matters up at the Lodge?” He jerked with
his thumb in the direction of “up the hill.”

Anthony regarded the black-bearded giant with curious interest. “I
haven’t the least idea how you know that,” he replied, “but you’re
quite right—I am! News seems to travel quickly in these parts.”

Blackbeard’s teeth flashed in a smile. “No great mystery about that,
sir,” he explained. “I saw you in the company of Sergeant Clegg last
night with another gentleman that looked uncommonly like a
police-detective. And I ain’t too bad at puttin’ two and two
together.” He grinned again.

“I see,” said Anthony. “And what was it you wanted to tell me? I take
it that there _is_ something—you haven’t called me in here merely to
wish me good morning?” He eyed the foundry-man quizzically.

“No, sir, I haven’t, and that’s a fact! And what I’ve got to say, I’d
sooner say to you than to the police, for I’ve no love for that
fraternity—you can take it from me.” He spat with some vigor as a
garnish to his remark; then proceeded to embellish what he had said.
“Especially for Sergeant Amos Clegg. But I like the look of you, sir,
and when my boy told me what he told me yesterday midday I advised him
to keep a still tongue in his head till I told him to loosen it. When
I spotted you last night, sir—I made up my mind that _I’d_ do the
tellin’ and to _you_!”

“Thank you for the compliment,” returned Anthony smiling. “I
appreciate it, I assure you. I shall be very pleased to hear what you
wish to tell me. Fire away!” The giant glanced round, then lowered his
voice appreciably. “My name’s Michael O’Connor and I’m the father of
Patrick O’Connor—him as they call boot-boy up at the Lodge—Mr.
Stewart’s place. Patrick was eighteen on the 17th of March and has
worked for poor Mr. Stewart for three or four months now. He does lots
of odd jobs about the place and gives the gardener a hand—I’m tellin’
you this just to give you a rough idea of who he is—so to speak. Now
Patrick’s a good lad—though he’s mine and say it I shouldn’t—honest
and willin’. He gets sent out a good deal, so Mr. Stewart provided him
with a bicycle to run his errands on. He don’t sleep up at the Lodge
and he’s supposed to leave the bicycle there when he gets away of an
evening—which is usually about seven. The machine goes into old
Maidment’s potting-shed. Maidment’s the gardener. That’s where Patrick
put it the night before last.” He stroked his beard and pushed his
face nearer to Bathurst. “When he went to the Lodge yesterday mornin’
and heard all about the murder there wasn’t much work for him, as you
may well guess—so he thought he’d give his bicycle a bit of a
clean-up. What does he find when he looks at it?” He paused
dramatically and drew himself to his full height. “That it had been
used by somebody since my Patrick left it in the shed.” He spat again.
“And how do you think he knew?” he chuckled—then without giving
Bathurst time to venture an opinion, continued, “Look down there,
sir,” he said, pointing down the road that wound into Assynton
village. “See the steam-roller?” Bathurst both saw and heard
it—puffing and grinding after the manner of steam-rollers and
flaunting the White Horse of Kent. “The road into Assynton is bein’
done up,” continued O’Connor—“with tarred macadam. The sun for two or
three days now has been melting the new stuff that’s been put down—it
sticks to your boots if you walk in it. And my Patrick tells me that
_the tires of his bicycle were all_ marked with it.” He concluded on a
note of triumph. Then looked at Bathurst with an invitation for
approval.

“Good lad,” contributed Anthony. “He’s told nobody besides you?”
O’Connor shook his leonine head.

“He was a bit frightened-like, I think, sir, so he brought his
troubles to his father—I teach my young’uns to do that! But it proves
this, sir, _somebody used the bicycle the night of the murder_.”

Anthony nodded in corroboration. “I suppose he’s sure he didn’t pick
the stuff up himself on some errand?”

“Absolutely, sir. He says he came into the village twice the day
before yesterday, and took great care to miss the part of the road
that’s been tarred. But a person riding in the dark, sir, wouldn’t
notice it—’specially if he had somethin’ on his mind.” He sniffed—and
the sniff carried a wealth of meaning.

“Perfectly true,” agreed Anthony, “and I’m much obliged to you for the
information—this road into the village leads straight to the station,
doesn’t it—it was getting dark when I drove up last night?”

“That’s right, sir,” replied O’Connor—“straight up through Assynton.”

Bathurst pushed a Treasury note into his hand, which, after some
demur, he accepted.

“I’ll be getting back now, O’Connor, and I’ll have a quiet chat with
Patrick at the first opportunity. I’ll tell him you’ve seen me—that
will establish my credentials.”

He swung back in the direction of the Lodge—musing over the encounter,
and over the incident of the footsteps during the night. When Stewart
introduced Morgan Llewellyn and he was able to identify the gentleman
as the wanderer who had disturbed his sleep, he concluded that he had
quite enough to think over for his first morning. Peter greeted him at
the breakfast-table.

“Been out, Bathurst? So early?”

“Just a short stroll, Daventry. I was anxious to have a look round and
I hadn’t the heart to rout you out, old man! I went across the downs a
bit and worked down towards the village.” He turned to Stewart. “The
birds were simply wonderful. I even enjoyed those melancholy
‘pee-wits’!”

“We’ll get breakfast over as soon as we possibly can, gentlemen,”
exclaimed Stewart. “I expect the Scotland Yard representative will be
up here pretty early. I should like you to be present, Mr. Bathurst,
when he enters the library—Sergeant Clegg closed the room up, you
know, when he left yesterday.”

Llewellyn sniffed contemptuously. “A brilliant piece of work—that! One
of us might have wanted to use the room—for a legitimate purpose, I
mean.” He wiped the glasses of his pince-nez with his silk
handkerchief. As he did so, Bathurst observed the peculiar quality of
his eyes and at the same time formed the opinion that Mr. Morgan
Llewellyn might very well prove to be a dangerous customer if things
didn’t please him over-well.

“Mr. Stewart,” said Anthony, addressing his host, “what sort of a lad
is Patrick O’Connor—the boot-boy?”

Stewart stared at him with a certain strain of amazement on his face.

“Really,” he said, “I didn’t know that you were sufficiently
acquainted with our staff here to be able to ask that question! I
suppose it’s a case of the early bird, eh?”

Anthony’s grey eyes twinkled delightfully! “We all have our little
secrets, Mr. Stewart,” he responded. “You mustn’t probe me too
thoroughly—tell me rather of Master O’Connor.” He looked round at
Peter Daventry—“He’s got a fine name, you know, Daventry—‘Patrick
O’Connor’—hark to the music of the ‘r’ and the ‘n’!”

“Quite a reliable lad,” came Stewart’s answer. “As far as I know.
Certainly I know nothing unfavorable.”

“What time does he get here in the morning?” asked Anthony.

“About half-past six, I believe,” replied Stewart. “You should
know—you’ve seen him, I take it, this morning?”

“On the contrary—I’ve never set eyes on him.” Bathurst smiled gravely.

He felt the glances of the three men fixed intently on him.

“Well, you’ve certainly wasted no time,” declared Llewellyn, “though
how exactly you’ve been to work, I can’t guess.”

“I sha’n’t ask you to,” laughed Anthony. “It might be trying you too
highly, and I mustn’t do that.”

Peter Daventry began to wish that he hadn’t slept so soundly—Mr.
Bathurst’s methods were beginning to fascinate him. Breakfast over, he
came across and joined Anthony. The latter went up and spoke quietly
to Charles Stewart.

“By all means,” was Stewart’s reply, “I’ll let you know directly I
want you.”

“Come and have a breath of air, Daventry,” said Anthony. “It’s a
perfectly wonderful morning.”

They strolled out into the garden; Anthony took a cigarette and handed
his case to his companion. “I want a few minutes’ conversation with
this boot-boy, Patrick O’Connor—I have a fancy that it may prove to be
somewhat enlightening—and don’t forget, Daventry, anything we may
hear, either now or later on, we’ll keep to ourselves, unless we
decide otherwise.”

Peter saluted with mock gravity. “I’ll be the soul of tacit
discretion,” he exclaimed. “Have you really stumbled across a clue
already?”

Bathurst’s face relaxed into a smile. “Clues are tumbling over each
other—I’ve really had the luck of the old gentleman himself up to the
moment. The ball’s running altogether too kindly—doubtless I shall get
a rude awakening soon. Come over on the grass there and I’ll tell you
something!”

Peter accepted his bidding with alacrity. Anthony carefully chose
another cigarette. “I’ll tell you this,” he said, speaking in low
tones, “before we go across to find O’Connor. But first—a question!
How did you sleep last night? Anything disturb you?”

Peter knitted his brows. “No! Nothing! But I was dog-tired and slept
like a top—whichever way that may actually be.”

Anthony pointed across to the wall of the garden against which could
be seen nestling a burden of magnificent nectarines. “Be
interested—apparently——in something that I’m showing you—I don’t want
anybody in the house to think I’m discussing the case with you—for all
I know we are being watched.”

Peter grimaced, but began to play his part as per instructions. “The
situation is becoming decidedly interesting,” he muttered. “Why do you
ask me about how I slept?”

Anthony made a gesture with his arm towards another part of the garden
before he answered. “At twenty-two minutes past one this morning I
awoke very suddenly. I’m a very light sleeper and the slightest sound
is sufficient to wake me. What I had heard was a step passing my
bedroom door. Of course I couldn’t be sure which direction the steps
had taken. But I slipped out of bed and opened my door. I stood
listening for some time and then I heard the steps coming back.
Whoever it was, was coming upstairs again. Naturally I had to bolt
back into my bedroom, but I held the door handle so that I could open
it quickly and noiselessly immediately the prowler had passed. I just
had time to see the gentleman disappear into the room next to yours.
You may guess that I went back to bed and did a little bit of quiet
thinking.”

“By Jove!” exclaimed Peter. “The plot thickens! Who the blazes was
it—any idea?”

“I know who it was,” replied Anthony. “It was the gentleman who had
‘brekker’ with us this morning—Mr. Morgan Llewellyn! You may remember
what he thought about the library being shut up.”

Peter whistled softly. “You mean that he was trying to get in there,
in the night?”

“I think it extremely probable,” declared Anthony. “And the question
is what is it that’s attracting him there? That’s what we’ve got to
find out—that’s why I’ve told you.”

“Did he get in do you think?” queried Peter, “because if he did, the
mischief’s done.”

“Not he,” grinned Anthony. “Sergeant Clegg saw to that, quite
thoroughly. Now come along over to the other side. We’ll see if we can
run across Patrick O’Connor.”

Maidment, the gardener, was earthing up potatoes in the kitchen garden
as they approached. He straightened himself as he wished them “Good
morning.”

“O’Connor,” he said, in answer to Anthony’s question. “You’ll find him
up there in the potting-shed.” He pointed past the cucumber frames
that lay on his right to a shed at the end of the path. “Perhaps you’d
like me to be accompanying you?” he continued. “Maybe I’ll be able to
help you?”

Anthony waved his offer on one side. “Thanks—but we’ll see him
alone—you stay here.”

As they reached the shed, a tall lad stepped out, and Bathurst
immediately recognized that here was a case of inherited physique. He
seemed surprised to see his visitors and made as though to turn back
into the potting-shed.

Anthony touched him on the arm—then bent down and whispered something
into his ear. The lad’s face cleared and he beckoned them inside.

“You gentlemen gave me a bit of a start,” he declared. “I’m a bit
jumpy I suppose since yesterday. This sort of thing gets on your
nerves, you know, sir—you can’t help it.”

Peter Daventry wondered what the message was that Bathurst had passed
on. What possible connection could there be between the two of them?
But his wonderings were summarily cut short. Anthony’s next remark
showed that he was speedily getting to business.

“Where is the bicycle, O’Connor?”

O’Connor walked across to the farther corner and wheeled the machine
down to them. He pointed to both front and back tires. “There you are,
sir! You can see for yourself!”

Anthony went down on his haunches and smelt the tires. “Quite certain
you didn’t pick it up yourself, O’Connor—on another part of the road,
for instance?”

“I’ll take my dyin’ oath I never did, sir. The day before the murder
was discovered I went down into Assynton twice—once just before lunch
time and the second time about a quarter-past four. I was extry
careful about riding over the new road because I hates my bike all
messed and mucked up, so I jumped off when I came to it and wheeled it
along the path. As for pickin’ it up anywhere else, sir—there ain’t no
other part of the road round here, sir, what’s bein’ done up.” His
eyes flashed, and Anthony realized again that here stood the son of
his father.

“Do you always keep the machine in this shed?” he asked.

Patrick O’Connor nodded an affirmative. “Always, sir!”

Anthony threw a critical glance round the potting-shed. “When you came
in yesterday morning and found your bicycle like that—was there
anything else here that caught your attention—was the shed just as
usual—everything in its place—nothing touched or disturbed?”

O’Connor thought for a moment—then shook his head. “Not that I
noticed, sir.”

Anthony walked to the door and looked out; then he retraced his steps.
“Re bicycles, O’Connor! Are there any other bicycles kept at Assynton
Lodge—or is this the only one on the premises?”

O’Connor flung his head back with decision. “This is the only cycle
here, sir, so that whoever used it on the night of the murder either
struck lucky or _knew that it was in here_.” He lowered his voice on
the last few words. Peter saw Anthony’s face as O’Connor spoke—then he
turned sharply. Maidment, arriving apparently from the clouds, was
framed against the doorway of the potting-shed. His approach had been
noiseless and unexpected, for even Bathurst seemed slightly taken off
his guard!

“Mr. Charles’s compliments,” announced the gardener, “and he will be
glad to see you two gentlemen in the library.”
