Chapter II

Police Constable George Gunnet bent down with a grunt of satisfaction
and slowly unlaced his second boot. He was not a quick mover at the
best of times and the pleasant kitchen, with its glowing fire and
appetizing aroma of toasted cheese, was conducive to drowsiness. He
had just come in from his last round and, to one fresh from the wild
night outside, the kitchen was a haven of peace and comfort. His tunic
hung over the back of a chair and he sat, very much at ease, in his
shirt-sleeves, waiting for Mrs. Gunnet to finish her bustling
preparations for the supper he felt he had more than earned.

“Nobody been, I suppose?” he asked, according to custom, as he filled
his pipe.

“Who should have been?” his wife countered tartly. Mrs. Gunnet had
once, some twenty years ago, been in service in Glasgow and, as she
often said, never could get used to a dead-alive little place like
Keys. “Nothing ever happens here, as I’m aware of.” Gunnet stretched
his legs luxuriously towards the warm glow of the fire.

“There’s quite enough happening for me, if it’s all the same to you,”
he said comfortably. “There’s a big elm down in Fanning’s meadow and
there’ll be more before morning if this goes on. All I could do to
stand up against the wind at the Four Corners and it fair blew me
home. Oye, shut the door, can’t you?” He made a grab at the newspaper
as, in the path of the wind, it leaped from the table and scudded
across the room into a corner. It was followed by a half-empty packet
of tobacco which he was too late to save.

“Here, will you shut that door!” he shouted, his head half under the
table. Then, emerging and catching sight of the visitor: “Beg your
pardon, Mr. Leslie; I didn’t see as it was you. What with that outer
door opening straight onto this room like, the wind comes in something
cruel.”

But Mrs. Gunnet’s sharp eyes had already detected something unusual in
the caller’s bearing.

“There’s nothing wrong, is there, sir?” she broke in. “Was you coming
after George?”

The newcomer nodded. He was panting with the haste in which he had
come and his face had a queer, grey look underneath the natural tan of
an open-air man. When he spoke it was in a hard, dry voice, carefully
devoid of all emotion, as if he were afraid that, at any moment, it
might get beyond his control.

“I say, Gunnet, I want you up at the farm. Something’s happened.”

He stopped, apparently not wishing to go further before Mrs. Gunnet,
who was gazing at him, her round eyes wide with curiosity.

Gunnet got slowly to his feet.

“Anything wrong, Mr. Leslie?” he asked. “It’s a wild night, for
certain, but if I’m really needed . . .”

Leslie gave a high-pitched laugh that ended in a crow. It was evident
that he was keeping himself in hand with difficulty.

“Needed, man!” He pulled himself up once more. “I’m sorry, Gunnet, but
I’m afraid I shall have to haul you away from your supper. I won’t
keep him longer than I can help, Mrs. Gunnet,” he went on as his eye
fell on the meal she had been just about to dish up.

Gunnet heaved himself reluctantly into his tunic and buttoned it, his
eyes on the troubled face of his visitor.

“Look here, sir,” he said weightily. “I’d better know what it’s all
about. You can talk in front of the missus, here. She knows when to
keep a still tongue in her head.”

Leslie gripped the back of the chair behind which he was standing. His
throat seemed to have grown suddenly dry.

“There’s a woman up at the farm, in my sitting-room,” he said, his
voice unnaturally quiet. “And she’s dead.”

Gunnet stared at him for a moment in silence, then, with an assumption
of officialdom that contrasted almost comically with his usual bluff
good-humour, pulled out his notebook.

“A woman? Who is she?”

“I don’t know. Never seen her before, to my knowledge. I found her
when I got back this evening.”

Gunnet unhooked his great-coat and got slowly into it.

“Better keep the rest till we get there. And don’t you get talking,
Mother,” he added gruffly as he went out.

“There ain’t nobody to talk to except the cat,” retorted Mrs. Gunnet,
“and she don’t answer.”

She had no cause, however, to complain of the village of Keys that
night. Even in Glasgow she had never spent an evening more replete
with variety. Gunnet’s return, and almost immediate departure, an hour
later, was followed by the arrival of the Sergeant and a Constable
from Whitbury, the market-town to which Gunnet had telephoned. To Mrs.
Gunnet was left the important task of directing them to John Leslie’s
farm and she would have given a great deal to have gone with them.

Gunnet opened the door to them when they arrived at the farm. John
Leslie was standing just behind him and did not miss the sharp,
appraising glance bestowed on himself by the Sergeant as he came in.

“Have you got the doctor?” was his first question.

“Couldn’t get him, sir,” Gunnet answered. “He was out when I
telephoned, but I left word for him to come up the instant he returned
to inspect the deceased.”

Overshadowed as his spirits were by the whole unpleasant affair,
Leslie could not resist an internal chuckle at this new aspect of
Gunnet. The easy-going, rather garrulous villager had already draped
himself in the majesty of the Law and was expressing himself
accordingly.

Gunnet led the way into the sitting-room. Leslie had placed the lamp
on the mantelpiece before making his hasty expedition to the police
station and it still burned there, lighting up the writing-table with
its tragic burden.

The Sergeant bent down and felt the cold cheek of the woman who lay
across it. Then he lifted her eyelid and looked under the soft, bobbed
hair that fell round her face.

“Dead, all right,” he said. “She’s just as you found her?”

Leslie stepped forward into the ring of light.

“I didn’t touch her, except to feel her face, just as you did. I knew
then that she was dead.”

He could hear the scratching of the Constable’s pencil as he made his
notes.

“You’re sure she was dead then?”

“I don’t think there was the faintest doubt. If I’d had the smallest
suspicion she was alive I should have tried to do something for her,
but I was so sure she was dead that I went straight for Gunnet. The
blood on the blotter was almost dry then.”

“What time was this, Mr. Leslie?”

“Just about eight. The clock in the kitchen struck while I was in
here.”

The Sergeant, a tall, lean man with a shrewd, typical North-country
face, scratched his chin thoughtfully.

“You live here alone, I think?” he asked.

Leslie nodded.

“Mrs. Grey, the carter’s wife, does for me. She comes in the morning
and leaves about two.”

“So that when you are out the house is deserted?”

“Absolutely, unless Grey is about in the yard. He was up at the
station fetching some stuff this evening and didn’t get back till
about nine. Gunnet was here then.”

“Could any one get in easily?”

“Quite. There is nothing here to steal. It’s only occasionally, when
there’s money in the house, that I lock the front door.”

The Sergeant was about to speak again when Leslie interrupted him.

“I’ve just remembered. I forgot it till just now. The door was wide
open when I came in. I’ve never found it like that before.”

“It was unlocked when you went out?”

“Yes, but it was latched. I always shut it. It’s a good latch, too.”

“Were you about the premises at all this afternoon, Mr. Leslie?”

So far, except for the Constable and his busy pencil in the
background, the interrogation had been more or less friendly and
informal. Now there was an official ring in the Sergeant’s voice that
made Leslie look carefully to his answer.

“I went out about four this afternoon and did not get back till just
before eight.”

“You weren’t near enough at any time during the evening to have heard
a shot? This is a shooting case, you know.”

Leslie shook his head.

“I went for a long tramp across country. Unless it was done just after
four or just before eight I couldn’t have heard anything.”

“An unusual time at which to take a walk, Mr. Leslie.”

The Sergeant’s voice was noncommittal, but Leslie felt himself flush.

“I was too busy to go before and I needed exercise,” he said shortly.

“You can account for your time, I suppose? I must ask you to think
carefully . . .”

Leslie broke in on him. His nerves had already been badly jarred by
the events of the evening and the man’s manner was beginning to annoy
him.

“Good Heavens, man, you’re not going to tell me that anything I may
say may be used against me? You’re welcome to what I can tell you, but
it isn’t much. I never saw this lady before in my life till I came in
at eight and found her in my room. How she got here I’ve no idea. You
surely don’t think I’ve murdered her!”

But the Sergeant refused to be drawn.

“All the same, we should like to know where you were during the
evening and whether you spoke to any one who could identify you during
that time.”

“Who was I likely to speak to? I tell you I went on a long,
cross-country tramp. I don’t suppose I met a soul, certainly not any
one who could identify me.”

“Four hours is a long time. You were walking all the time?”

“Yes.”

Leslie spoke curtly. He was tired and the whole thing was beginning to
get on his nerves.

“Then, if that’s all you can tell me, Mr. Leslie, I’ll take a look
round here. If you’ll step into another room . . .”

Leslie opened his mouth as though about to say something, and then,
apparently, thought better of it.

“You’ll find me in the kitchen if you want me,” he volunteered as he
went out. “There’s some coffee on the stove for any one who would like
it.”

The Sergeant looked after him thoughtfully, then strolled to the door.

“I should be obliged if you wouldn’t leave the house just at present,”
he called after him.

Leslie suddenly lost his temper.

“My good fellow, I’m not going to run away!” he exploded.

Once in the little kitchen he sank into a chair by the stove and ran
his fingers through his hair. He was abominably tired, too tired to
think properly, but it was beginning to strike him that he was in a
tighter place than he had realized. He had been a fool to lose his
temper like that. After all, the chap couldn’t be blamed for feeling a
bit suspicious.

With a long sigh, he dropped his head into his hands and tried to view
the situation calmly. But the thoughts went chasing round in a futile
circle in his tired brain, and at last, in despair, he gave it up and
straightened himself. If only the police would hurry up and get
through with the job!

He reached for the coffee-pot and poured himself out a big cup of
black coffee.

“Damn!” he said with heartfelt emphasis. “Oh, damn!”

Meanwhile the Sergeant was pursuing his investigations. With the help
of Gunnet and the man he had brought with him he raised the body from
the table and laid it on the floor. As the head fell back against his
shoulder Gunnet gave vent to an exclamation.

“It’s her from Miss Allen’s! Her sister, I think she is. I see her in
the village this morning!”

“Miss Allen of Greycross?”

“That’s right. Been here a matter of five years now. I heard tell
somewhere that she was expecting her sister, and this lady come
yesterday. A Mrs. Something, I think she is. The wife’d know. She’s a
rare one for picking up news, she is.”

The Sergeant was examining the wound that was hidden under the thick,
fair hair.

“It’s a bullet-wound, all right, and fired at fairly close range. Any
sign of a weapon anywhere?”

But there was no trace of the weapon by which the unfortunate woman
had met her death. The little room seemed unnaturally tidy and normal
for the scene of so grim a tragedy; an ordinary man’s room, giving no
sign of any struggle; the only feminine note in it being the still
figure on the ground and a brocade bag which, with the ominous,
suggestive stain on the blotter, supplied the only touch of colour on
the dark wood of the writing-table. The Sergeant opened the bag. A
small powder-puff, a cigarette-case and holder, a stick of lip-salve,
a tiny gold purse with a few shillings in it, and a lace handkerchief,
were all it contained. The handkerchief bore an embroidered monogram
in the corner. “R. D.” or “D. R.” were the letters, but, as Gunnet was
unable to remember the name of Miss Allen’s guest, this was of little
use for purposes of identification.

The contents of the bag were costly and the woman’s clothes in keeping
with them. She was expensively dressed in a long fur coat which fell
open as they moved her and revealed a fawn-coloured georgette dress,
heavily trimmed with sequins, underneath. As well as the rings on her
fingers she wore a long chain of rhinestones and a gold watch-bracelet
set with diamonds. Fine silk stockings and brown glace beaded shoes
with very high heels covered her feet. To the soles of the shoes dried
earth was clinging and a dead leaf was adhering to one of the heels.

“Doesn’t look much like robbery,” remarked Gunnet.

“She came here of her own accord, too, I should say. There is no sign
of any struggle. Her clothes are as tidy as when she left home.” The
Sergeant stood looking down at the calm face upturned to his. “She was
a beauty, poor thing, and no mistake,” he added gently. “It must have
been sudden, the end. She never knew what was coming to her. Look at
her face.”

It was true. Except for the smear of dried blood down one side of the
cheek, and its ghastly pallor, there was nothing to suggest that she
was not quietly sleeping. The still lips even held a faint smile and
it was evident that death had come swiftly and mercifully.

“It looks as if the murderer must have been some one known to her,
some one she would have no cause to fear,” went on the Sergeant.
“Either that or she thought she was alone in the house and he came on
her unawares from behind. That young chap in there,” he continued,
indicating the direction of the passage with a jerk of his head. “He
knows Miss Allen, doesn’t he? I seem to remember him and her at the
Point to Point together.”

“Very good friends, they are,” assented Gunnet. “But this lady only
came yesterday, I’m thinking, and I don’t remember ever to have seen
her here before. Likely he doesn’t know her.”

He stood stolidly by the table while the Sergeant proceeded with his
examination of the room; once, only, he volunteered a statement.

“He seemed proper upset when he came down to the station,” he remarked
thoughtfully.

The Sergeant looked round sharply.

“In what way, upset?”

Gunnet’s ruddy face took on an even deeper hue in his efforts to
express himself clearly.

“Startled like, as any one would be that had found a thing like this
in his room. More excited than guilty, if you understand me. By the
time we got back here he was acting quite natural. Lit the fire and
made coffee and all while we was waiting for you. I shouldn’t say he
acted suspicious.”

If the Sergeant held any opinion on the subject, he kept it to
himself. He finished his examination of the room and moved to the
door.

“Nothing here,” he said. “Give me your lantern and I’ll have a look
outside. You stay and keep an eye on things here. Come on, Collins.”

He went out, followed by the man he had brought from Whitbury, a young
Constable, fresh to his job and awed into silence by the magnitude of
his first case.

Meanwhile John Leslie sat huddled over the stove in the kitchen, half
asleep. It seemed to him as if this pleasant country life to which he
had retired so thankfully after four hideous years of warfare had
suddenly merged itself into a nightmare which would never end. His one
longing was for bed and sleep and yet even that seemed out of the
question so long as the farm housed that tragic figure. Meanwhile
there seemed nothing for it but to hang about until all this sordid
official procedure was over.

He was roused by the entry of Collins.

“Sergeant Brace says would you come outside for a minute, sir,” he
announced.

Leslie rose wearily to his feet and followed the man. Brace stood just
outside the door leading into the garden.

“We’ve found footsteps in the bed under the sitting-room window. Looks
as if some one had stood there looking into the room. Perhaps you’d
have a look at them.”

He led the way to the flower-bed and turned the lantern on it. The
footprints were distinctly to be seen in the soft earth. They were
large and curiously undefined in outline.

“That’s not a clear-cut mark like you or I would make,” commented the
Sergeant. “I should say they were done by some one in an uncommonly
old pair of boots. There’s more upper than sole to those! What sort of
boots does your man wear?”

“The usual heavy labourer’s boot with nails in it. Good solid sole.
I’m not an adept at this sort of thing, but, if what you say is true,
he did not make those marks. Neither did I, for the matter of that.”

He held out his own foot for inspection.

For the first time Brace permitted himself to smile.

“I never suspected you of boots like the ones that made those prints,
Mr. Leslie. But I wanted to make sure that they were not the carter’s.
There’s been no rain for three days and those marks may have been
there some time, provided the bed hasn’t been raked over lately.”

“As for that, I raked it over myself yesterday morning; but that
doesn’t tell you much, I suppose, as they might have been made any
time afterwards.”

In spite of his fatigue and distaste for the whole business, Leslie
was beginning to grow interested.

Brace flashed his lantern on the brick path that led across the front
of the house.

“Nothing there, unfortunately, but there’s something I’d like to show
you over here.”

Leslie followed him to the barn. Here the footsteps were distinctly
discernible on the earthen floor, but less clearly defined and, in
some cases, blurred in a manner that suggested that the walker had
crossed his own tracks. But they led quite obviously to the foot of
the ladder up to the loft.

Brace went on ahead up the ladder.

“Here’s something you might be able to help us with,” he said as they
reached the top.

He pointed to the straw in the corner.

“That’s been slept on lately, and look at this.”

He indicated a couple of dirty rags that looked as though they might
have been used as bandages, except that they were bare of any stain.

“Probably some tramp. I’ve had them in here more than once in cold
weather,” said Leslie.

“It’s a tramp, right enough. Those are the rags they mostly bind their
feet up with instead of socks. They stick to them, too, as a rule.
Looks as if this chap must have been disturbed and left in a hurry.
It’s probably his footsteps under the window. You don’t recall turning
a tramp out of the barn any time lately?”

Leslie shook his head.

“I don’t think I ever have turned one off. I sometimes find their
traces in the morning, but, even if I knew one of them was here, I
should probably wink at it and let him stay. The fowls are all
securely locked up and the tramps round here are a harmless lot, as a
rule, so long as they don’t smoke in the straw and fire the old place.
It wouldn’t be much loss if they did. It’s not even weather-tight.”

“You haven’t seen one hanging round the last day or so?”

“No. They don’t hang round much in the daytime, anyhow, because of the
dog. They slip in at night after he’s chained up.”

“He’s a sound sleeper, that dog!” commented Brace. “We’ve made noise
enough and he hasn’t stirred.”

“He’s not here. I had intended to go to London to-night, so I took him
down to the Greys this morning.”

“And then didn’t go, after all?”

“I shouldn’t be here now if I had,” said Leslie wearily. “I had a wire
saying I wasn’t wanted, after all.”

“What was the appointment, if I may ask?”

Leslie was tickled, in spite of himself. His irritation was beginning
to wear off, no doubt due to the coffee which had begun to allay his
fatigue.

“The appointment was at the Law Courts,” he said dryly. “Not in the
dock, however. Just a perfectly respectable witness for the
prosecution. Case of a stolen car, to be exact. Unfortunately for me,
I happened to be talking to the owner when we saw the chap actually
making off with the car.”

“Case of identifying the thief,” remarked Brace with professional
interest.

“That’s the idea. Wish to goodness I’d gone now, then I should have
been out of all this, but the case was postponed. You’d have accepted
that alibi all right, Sergeant?”

“I’d accept any alibi you like to offer if it was authentic, Mr.
Leslie,” answered Brace soberly.

That the whole business was awkward Leslie had been slowly realizing
ever since his first interview with the Sergeant, but there was that
in Brace’s voice now that, for the first time, gave him a feeling of
real apprehension.

“I’d give you one like a shot if I could,” he answered quickly.

Brace moved the lantern so that the light fell full on Leslie’s face.

“Have you seen Miss Allen lately?” he asked suddenly.

Leslie, dazzled by the glare of the lantern and bewildered by the
inconsequence of the question, hesitated.

“Miss Allen? I saw her in the village yesterday—no, the day before.
Why?”

“Did she say anything about expecting a visitor?”

Leslie blinked and turned his face away from the blinding light.

“She said she was expecting her sister, a Mrs. Something-or-other. She
mentioned the name, but I’ve forgotten it.”

“You wouldn’t recognize the lady if you saw her?”

“I shouldn’t think so, unless she’s some one I’ve met in some other
part of the world. I’ve never seen her here, if that’s what you mean.”

“Doesn’t often stay with her sister, eh?”

“I don’t think so. Miss Allen didn’t say much about her, but, from
what she did say, I gathered that they were not very intimate. She
mentioned that she’d proposed herself and seemed rather surprised at
it.”

He saw no reason to repeat Miss Allen’s actual words. That elderly and
very downright spinster had spoken with her usual incisive frankness.
“What Tina’s up to, I don’t know and I don’t want to know. Some
mischief, I’ll be bound, and possibly crooked mischief at that. I
don’t trust her. She’s got some good reason for wanting to spend a
week with her old sister. I told her she could stay as long as she
liked, provided she didn’t try to ride my horses. She’s got a seat
like a sack of potatoes; and as for her hands! Luckily scented
cigarettes and a chair by the fire are more in her line.”

The wind had dropped and, for the first time for three days, a fine
rain was falling. As they left the barn they heard the sound of a car
making its way up the lane.

“That’ll be the doctor, I expect,” said Brace, obviously relieved.
“After that we shall be able to get away to our beds.”

The doctor met them at the door. After a few words of explanation on
both sides he hurried into the sitting-room and knelt down beside the
body, drawing off his thick driving-gloves as he did so. His hands
were cold and he seemed to have some difficulty in freeing them from
the stiff leather. As he pulled at the gloves his quick eyes scanned
the body, taking in all the details of its appearance. Leslie, who was
standing immediately opposite to him, was struck with the keen
alertness of his glance and revised his opinion of him then and there.
Gregg had always struck him as rather a stupid person and he made a
mental note of the fact that, until you have seen a man at his job, it
is wiser not to pass judgment on him.

Gregg parted the hair over the side of the head as Brace had done.

“Good Lord! Shot!” he ejaculated.

Leslie noticed that the hands with which he unfastened the woman’s
dress to make a further examination were not quite steady, and again
decided that he had never done the man justice. He was evidently
genuinely moved at the sight of the pitiful figure before him.

“Can you arrive at any conclusion as to how long she’s been dead?”
asked Brace when he had finished his examination.

“Difficult to say with such a cursory examination, but, roughly, four
or five hours would cover it.”

“Not longer?”

“I don’t think so. I shouldn’t like to say within an hour or so. Not
more than six hours, certainly.”

“Would death be instantaneous?”

“Almost certainly. Shot in the temple. Who killed her?”

He swung round, still on his knees, and looked up at the Sergeant.

Brace answered with another question as sharp as his own.

“You don’t admit the possibility of suicide?”

“Quite possible. For a left-handed woman. The wound’s on the wrong
side.”

“On the wrong side for a right-handed person,” commented Brace. “But
we’ve no reason to think that she was right-handed.”

Gregg rose to his feet and dusted the knees of his trousers.

“Probably was. Most women are,” he said slowly.

He bent down and examined the hands carefully.

“She wrote with her right hand, anyway,” he said. “Look at this.”

There were faint stains, evidently of ink, on the first and second
fingers of the right hand.

“One to you, Doctor,” conceded Brace good-humouredly. “Apart from
that, it was a good shot of yours. There’s no weapon.”

“Who found her?”

“Mr. Leslie here. Whoever did it seems to have got away.”

Brace looked sharply at Leslie.

“A nasty jar, eh? Feel all right?”

“Quite, thanks. But it’s a beastly business and I wish it had happened
anywhere else.”

“Ever seen the lady, Doctor?” asked Brace.

Gregg scrutinized the delicate features of the unfortunate woman.

“No friend of mine,” he said curtly. “Any idea who she is?”

“Gunnet here has recognized her as a lady staying with Miss Allen, of
Greycross. Thinks she’s her sister.”

Leslie’s exclamation of horrified astonishment was drowned by Gregg.

“Good God!” he shouted. “Not Miss Allen’s sister!”

“I’m afraid so, from what Gunnet says. However, we shall know soon
enough.”

Gregg seemed aghast at the discovery.

“Miss Allen’s sister!” he repeated. “It’s impossible! Why, they’re as
different as chalk from cheese.”

“There’s a difference in age, too. But Gunnet saw her in the village
this morning.”

Gregg picked up his coat.

“Well, it’s a queer world,” he said reflectively. “You’ll want me, I
suppose, for the inquest. Are you moving her?”

The Sergeant nodded.

“Gunnet’s gone down to fetch a van from the village and we’ll get her
over to Whitbury to-night. I’m going on from here to see Miss Allen.
It’s not a job I’m hankering after, to tell you the truth.”

“Want me to come along?” asked Gregg. “I might be needed, but I doubt
it. She’s a strong-minded woman, Miss Allen, and I shouldn’t say
hysterics were much in her line.”

“I’d be grateful if you would, all the same. It’s not a pleasant thing
to have to tell a lady.”

Gregg nodded.

“Righto,” he said. “It’s all in the day’s work.”

They went back to the kitchen and sat by the fire, talking desultorily
while they waited for Gunnet and the van. Leslie produced drinks and
did his best to join naturally in the conversation, but he was ill at
ease. He found himself wondering what was passing in Gregg’s mind. Was
he, too, curious as to what part Leslie had played in this tragic
drama? Leslie tried to visualize the whole thing from the point of
view of a casual observer, and failed. Already he was too deeply
entangled in this gruesome business to see it in its right
proportions.

He was thankful when Gunnet arrived with the van and a stretcher to
bear away the corpse. Brace and the doctor left five minutes later in
Gregg’s little two-seater. It seemed to Leslie that there was an
unusual warmth in Gregg’s voice as he bid him good night. He had never
liked the doctor, but he felt grateful to him now, for his hearty
handshake came hot on the heels of Brace’s last words as he climbed
into the car.

“I must ask you to hold yourself at the disposal of the police until
further notice, Mr. Leslie.”
