Chapter IX

When Fayre got back to Staveley he found a tea-party in full swing and
spent the rest of the afternoon trying to escape from various
formidable old ladies, who picked his brains as tactfully as might be
as to the way Leslie’s affairs were shaping; how Cynthia was taking
the whole affair and whether Sir Edward Kean was likely to be briefed
for the defence. He put them off as best he could with noncommittal
answers and felt thankful, for Cynthia’s sake, that she had decided
earlier in the day to drive over to Galston and spend the afternoon at
home.

Lady Staveley, realizing that the girl was dreading her mother’s
comments on the situation, had been over the day before and persuaded
Lady Galston to let her keep Cynthia with her for the present.
Fortunately, that lady had not realized that Staveley was a stronghold
of the enemy and that Cynthia’s loyalty to the man she had promised to
marry would meet with nothing but encouragement there and was only too
glad to feel, as she artlessly put it, that Cynthia would be out of
mischief for a day or two.

The Staveleys had decided to wipe off two irksome duties in one day
and Fayre found himself let in for a big dinner-party of county
worthies. He was still stiff and tired from his unwonted exertions and
was heartily glad when the evening was over. He managed, however, to
glean a few facts about Gregg’s past from people who, on the arrival
of the “new doctor,” had made it their business to find out all about
him and who responded only too readily to his adroit questions. He
also discovered that the local vicar’s wife had known the Allens in
Hampshire in years gone by and had followed Mrs. Draycott’s career
from the beginning with considerable interest. In her capacity as
vicar’s wife she could not approve of her, but Fayre detected a touch
of envy in her voice as she recounted some of the episodes in the dead
woman’s chequered past. According to her, Mrs. Draycott had managed to
“have a good time,” as she expressed it, from the moment she left the
schoolroom and, at one time, in spite of her divorce from her first
husband, had moved in a smart, but quite reputable, set in London. Of
late years, however, she had undoubtedly gone down in the social
scale. The Dare Divorce Suit had done her reputation irretrievable
damage and she spent most of her time abroad when she was not staying
with people who, for old times’ sake or because they were less
squeamish than the rest, were still willing to ask her to their
houses. Lady Staveley’s invitation, he gathered, had been the result
of a large charity entertainment in which they had both been involved
and in connection with which Mrs. Draycott had made herself very
useful. Unfortunately, when it came to her associates in the last few
years, the vicar’s wife proved a broken reed. She knew as little as
Miss Allen of the set in which Mrs. Draycott had been moving when she
died.

Gregg’s record, allowing for certain embroideries at the hands of the
local gossips, proved slightly more enlightening. He had arrived in
the neighbourhood about three years before, having come straight from
a large, but very poor, practice in London. His predecessor, from whom
he had bought his present practice, was retiring, after a long and
popular career, and, having weathered a short period of unpopularity
due to his brusque manner, Gregg stepped into his shoes as a matter of
course. Of his skill there was no question, and, according to Fayre’s
informants, he hid a kind heart under a rough exterior. He was
unmarried and lived alone, his women-folk being a cook-housekeeper and
a maid. He kept one car, which was looked after by the cook’s husband,
who combined the duties of chauffeur and gardener. He had the
reputation of being a good bridge player, but cared little for society
and was not often to be seen at the local entertainments.

On one point Fayre’s informants were unanimous: that never, at any
time, could he have been a lady’s man, and the general opinion was
that he had once suffered at the hands of a woman. Certainly, his
opinion of the sex was unflatteringly small and he made no secret of
his views. Fayre began to modify the conclusions he had drawn from
Gregg’s antagonistic attitude towards Mrs. Draycott; in the light of
what he had just heard, it seemed a fairly natural one.

Cynthia returned just as the party was dispersing and slipped up to
her room, so that he had no opportunity of speaking to her that
evening. He sent a message by Lady Staveley to the effect that Grey
had seen Leslie that morning and that he had found him well and
cheerful, and then went to bed himself, feeling more tired than he had
been for many a long day.

The fine weather held and the next morning he basely turned a deaf ear
to the bells of the little church at Keys and, having seen the
Staveleys off to the pursuance of their Sunday duties, went in search
of his fellow-truants, Lady Kean and Cynthia. He found them, wrapped
in furs, in a sunny corner of the terrace.

Cynthia greeted him eagerly.

“I very nearly came to your room and heaved you out of bed, Uncle
Fayre, last night,” she exclaimed. “I did so want to know what you’d
been up to. Only Eve said you were too tired. She declared you’d been
bicycling!”

Fayre laughed outright at the horror of her tone.

“Why not?” he retorted. “When I left England all the best people
bicycled and it seemed to me as good a way to get exercise as any. It
never occurred to me that it would make such a sensation. Even the
villagers look at me as if I’d suddenly gone mad!”

“You probably have,” said Cynthia severely. “If you’ve really started
careering about the country on a push-bike.”

“Anyhow, I careered to some purpose. For one thing, Grey and I have
pretty well established the fact that Mrs. Draycott was taken to the
farm by some one in a car and that person was actually seen leaving,
alone, after the murder.”

He had made his point as effectively as a good actor, and his audience
responded to the full. Even Sybil Kean’s habitual languor deserted her
and she leaned forward in her chair, her fine eyes alight with
interest.

“Am I on in this scene?” she asked almost eagerly. “Or must I do the
correct and tactful thing and drift away down the terrace as if I
hadn’t heard a word of what you’ve just said? I expect you do want to
talk to Cynthia alone.”

Cynthia turned on her indignantly.

“We want you, don’t we, Uncle Fayre?”

“Of course. I was counting on your advice. For one thing, you must
have a closer acquaintance with the person I want to discuss, than any
one else in this house.”

For a moment she looked puzzled. Then:

“Dr. Gregg?” she said quietly.

“How did you know? There are times when you’re uncanny, Sybil.”

“There’s nothing uncanny about this. I’ll tell you later, but get on
with your story first. It’s brutal to keep us in suspense.”

“Begin at the very beginning, Uncle Fayre. And, please, what did Mr.
Grey say, exactly, about John? Was he really cheerful and is he
desperately uncomfortable?”

Fayre told her all he had been able to gather from Grey.

“He’s going to try to get you an interview again next week. It’s a bit
of a strain for you, my dear, I’m afraid, but it means a lot to
Leslie.”

Cynthia’s almost boyish youth seemed to fall from her like a garment
and Fayre, watching her, had a sudden vision of what a charming woman
she would make in the days to come.

Sybil Kean looked meaningly across at him.

“Get on with your story, Hatter,” she said gently, and he knew that
she did not want the girl’s emotions played on at this juncture.

He told them in as few words as possible of the tramp’s disclosures
and his own subsequent investigations.

“The probability is,” he finished, “that Mrs. Draycott was picked up
at the bottom of the lane leading to Greycross—whether by appointment
or not we do not know—and driven to the farm. Why she was taken to the
farm is a mystery, unless it was part of a deliberate attempt to cast
suspicion on Leslie. It certainly looks as if there was an appointment
and she left Greycross to keep it. She was hardly the kind of woman to
go for a stroll on a cold, windy night in such unsuitable clothing.”

“It was a queer kind of appointment if she did not tell her sister
about it,” said Sybil Kean thoughtfully.

“It may have been with one of the many friends of whom she knew her
sister would disapprove. In fact, that’s pretty obvious, or she’d have
asked him to the house instead of slipping out to meet him.”

“I suppose Miss Allen can’t suggest anybody?” put in Cynthia.

“Useless. I’ve asked her. She did her best—and sent a lot of messages
to you, by the way, Cynthia—but she says she knows very little of her
sister’s friends. I gather they weren’t a very reputable lot.”

“Somebody else may have seen the car,” suggested Cynthia.

“There’s always a bare chance,” agreed Fayre. “If our luck holds we
may come across some one. You mustn’t forget that the tramp’s not out
of the reckoning yet. He admits to being in the immediate
neighbourhood of the farm at the time the crime was committed and
we’ve no proof that he wasn’t actually present.”

“What he said fitted in very well with the carter’s story, though.”

“It did, but that doesn’t alter the fact that he might have been
actually _at_ the farm when he saw the car the first time. We’ve only
his word for it that he was at the corner of the lane. Personally, I
don’t think he’s got brains enough to invent such an ingenious defence
or enough pluck to commit a murder; but one never knows. A timid man
sometimes kills in a moment of panic, from sheer fright at being
discovered. We can’t afford to rule him out yet. Mrs. Draycott may
have gone to the farm on her own account and been surprised there by
the tramp; and he, in his turn, may have been surprised by the arrival
of the man in the car and have killed her to stop her mouth.”

“But there were two people in the car, going, and only one coming
back.”

“Remember, that’s according to the tramp himself. He’s the only person
who saw the car the first time.”

“Then we get back to the original problem,” said Sybil Kean. “Why did
Mrs. Draycott go to the farm at all?”

Fayre nodded.

“That’s the real snag,” he agreed. “Still, I can’t help thinking that
it all points to an appointment, probably with the driver of the car.
Given that the tramp killed her, the man with the car may have kept
his appointment, found her dead and cleared off, hence his haste.”

“And where does Dr. Gregg come into all this?” asked Sybil Kean.

“On very flimsy grounds at present, I’m glad to say, for the sake of
your peace of mind! I can imagine it would be a little disquieting to
find you’d got a murderer as your medical attendant!”

Sybil Kean smiled lazily.

“Poor Dr. Gregg! He is rather a bear, on the surface, but you’d be
surprised how gentle he can be. You’ve got to be ill to see the best
side of him. He’s not cold-blooded enough for a murderer.”

Fayre looked at her in surprise.

“Then what made you pitch on him as the person in whom I was
interested? You said there was a reason.”

“A very vague one. And I may be absolutely mistaken. It was more an
impression I had.”

“Let’s have it, anyway; then I’ll tell you what’s been worrying me. We
may make something of it between us.”

“It was really Mrs. Draycott. As soon as she heard his name she did
nothing but ask questions about him. When he came here; where he came
from; what was he like, and that sort of thing. I may have been wrong,
but I had a distinct impression that she had met him before.”

“Why didn’t she see for herself? She had plenty of opportunities. He
came two or three times while she was staying here, didn’t he?”

“That was the funny thing. I don’t believe she wanted to meet him. As
a matter of fact, I chaffed her about her curiosity and suggested she
should stroll casually into my room and have a look at him. She
laughed and seemed quite ready to fall in with the idea, but she never
came.”

“Did you ever tackle him on the subject?”

“Yes. On one occasion, I asked him point-blank if he had ever met her.
He laughed and said that, unless she had ever been addicted to
slumming, she was the last person he was likely to meet. All the same,
I had an odd conviction that they had come across each other at some
time or other and that neither was anxious to renew the acquaintance.
Of course, I’ve nothing to go on but my own very vague impressions.
That and the fact that I see more of him than most of the people here
made me suspect that you had him in your mind.”

“It’s funny how it fits in with what I was going to tell you. My
suspicions were roused in very much the same way. When he drove me to
the station to meet Grey we discussed Mrs. Draycott and he seemed
quite extraordinarily bitter against her, considering they had never
met. Also, he struck me as knowing a good deal about her, nothing that
gossip and newspaper reports would not account for, but enough to show
that he had followed her career with considerable interest.
Unfortunately I said something that put him on his guard and he shut
up like a clam. Mine, like yours, was only a vague impression, but,
oddly enough, Leslie seems to have been struck by the same idea. It’s
only fair to say, though, that Leslie may have been influenced by
certain leading questions Grey put to him at my request.”

“What roused John’s suspicions?” asked Cynthia.

“Gregg’s manner when he was called to view the body. Also, according
to him, Gregg did not actually deny having met Mrs. Draycott when he
was questioned by the police. He said, apparently, that she was ‘no
friend of his’ and the police naturally took it to mean that he did
not know her. It may have been merely his way of putting it. We’ve
none of us really got anything to go on.”

“Also, if he’s got anything to hide, he’s giving himself away rather
stupidly, isn’t he?” suggested Sybil Kean.

“He’s apparently being criminally careless and he’s not a stupid man.
I admit to being puzzled by him, he’s such a queer mixture of
bluntness and reserve.”

“And so you want me to do a little Sherlock Holmes work while he’s
taking my temperature! Cynthia can play Watson! Joking apart, though,
I like Dr. Gregg and I can’t believe he’s got any real connection with
the murder. He’s a much better sort than people think.”

“Probably,” said Fayre. “Though I don’t care for the chap myself. But
it doesn’t follow that he mayn’t have a shrewd idea who did commit the
murder and be shielding him for some reason of his own.”

Sybil Kean laughed.

“Edward would say we were a lot of old women, with our impressions and
deductions. Still, considering the paucity of clues, it seems a pity
to disregard anything.”

“_Y.0.7._” admitted Fayre ruefully. “It’s not much to go on.”

Sybil Kean looked up quickly.

“What’s that?” she asked.

“All we have got of the number of the car. That and a stylographic pen
that might have been lying in the grass for ages.”

“A pen!” exclaimed Cynthia. “This is quite new. You’ve been keeping it
up your sleeve all this time, Uncle Fayre!”

“Didn’t Edward tell you? I suppose he hadn’t time. I picked up a red
stylographic pen—a ‘Red Dwarf,’ I think they used to be called—by the
gate the first time we went to the farm. The day we were there with
you and Leslie. As I say, it may have been there for ages or, more
probably still, was dropped by one of the reporters after the murder.
I know he didn’t consider it of much importance.”

Sybil Kean rose to her feet.

“I must leave you, my children,” she said regretfully. “If I don’t go
and rest, that sinister man, Gregg, will have my blood. If Hatter
comes out with any more interesting revelations, mind you report to
me, Cynthia.”

She moved slowly towards the house. Cynthia looked after her with a
little frown of mingled pity and anxiety.

“She doesn’t seem to get any better,” she said. “I hope we haven’t
tired her. She looked all in, just now.”

“I wonder what Gregg’s opinion really is . . .” began Fayre; then
broke off with a sudden exclamation and sprang to his feet.

But he was too late. Sybil Kean had wavered for a moment, recovered
herself, and then, before he or Cynthia could reach her, sunk in a
huddled heap by the door leading from the terrace to the drawing-room.

Cynthia was by her side in an instant.

“Ring for her maid, quick!” she commanded. “And then get Dr. Gregg on
the telephone. It’s her heart again!”

Fortunately the maid proved efficient and, while Fayre was ringing up
the doctor, she and Cynthia got the unconscious woman to bed between
them. Gregg was not at his house, but at the Cottage Hospital, where
Fayre eventually ran him to earth and managed to get him on the end of
the telephone. He promised to come at once and Fayre was waiting
impatiently in the hall for his arrival when Cynthia joined him,
looking worried and anxious.

“She’s still unconscious,” she said. “Her maid’s splendid—she seems to
know exactly what to do; but I wish Dr. Gregg would come!”

“Do you think all that stuff about Gregg could have upset her?” asked
Fayre, his conscience smiting him. “I could kick myself for being such
a fool. After all, she’s entirely dependent on him while she’s here.”

Cynthia laid a reassuring hand on his arm.

“Nonsense, Uncle Fayre! Sybil’s got much too much sense for that.
You’re not to blame. She gets attacks like this and they’ve been
getting worse, her maid says. Probably the dinner-party last night
knocked her up. It was pretty awful, according to Eve.”

Gregg arrived sooner than they had dared hope. He was upstairs for a
long time and Fayre hung about miserably, wishing most heartily that
the Staveleys would return from church, for Eve Staveley was one of
those cheerfully competent people who are invaluable in a case of
illness. He waylaid Gregg on his way out.

“She’ll do,” was his verdict in answer to Fayre’s inquiry. “But she
won’t weather many more attacks like this. Each one is a fresh drain
on her vitality. Blast that dinner-party!”

“You think that did it?”

“Sure. A stuffy dining-room and the effort of talking to a lot of
stodgy people would be quite enough.” Fayre looked him squarely in the
eyes.

“Is she going to get any stronger?” he asked. “I’m one of the oldest
friends they’ve got and I’d like to know how things really are.”

Gregg shrugged his shoulders.

“The machine’s worn out,” he said. “We can patch it, of course, but
every time we do, it becomes a bit weaker. Heart’s always the devil,
you know. I wish I could speak differently,” he went on with a touch
of real feeling in his voice. “She’s one of the best and pluckiest
patients I’ve ever had.”

“Can nothing be done?”

Gregg shook his head.

“She couldn’t be in the hands of a better man than Sir Victor, if
that’s what you mean. No one in Europe can beat him in his own line. I
know, because I worked under him at St. Swithin’s. He’ll do all that’s
humanly possible. I must get back to the hospital. You can get me
there or at home for the next few hours, but you probably won’t need
me. With rest and care she should do all right now. I’ll drop in again
this evening.”

He hurried away, leaving Fayre to make the most of the small comfort
he had given him.

He proved right. By that evening Sybil Kean was noticeably better and
Fayre was able to fix his mind once more on his own, or rather
Leslie’s, affairs. As far as the tracing of the car was concerned,
that was best left in Grey’s hands and, in default of a better job, he
decided to turn his attention to Gregg. The doctor had mentioned St.
Swithin’s and, for some reason he could not place, the name roused an
illusive echo in his mind. For a long time he searched his memory in
vain and it was not till he was in the act of getting into bed that he
suddenly traced the connection. One Henderson, a man he had known well
in his student days in London, had been at St. Swithin’s. He did not
know Gregg’s age, but, from the look of him, they must have been
contemporaries, more or less. It would do no harm to look the man up
and ask him a few questions. In any case, he had been one of the many
people he had meant to run to earth on his return to England and now,
provided he was not in the Antipodes, would be as good a time as any.
He made up his mind to get hold of a medical directory and write to
Henderson at the first opportunity.
