Chapter VII

The drive back to Staveley was a silent one. Cynthia had been allowed
to see Leslie for a few minutes before he was removed to the police
station and had taken friendly and reassuring messages from both Kean
and Fayre with her. She found him cheerful and, apparently,
undismayed, but even her pluck had not been proof against the sordid
atmosphere of the dingy little waiting-room and the menace of the two
policemen who remained within earshot all through the interview, and
she could no longer conceal her weariness and depression.

Miss Allen, who had waited at the entrance to the Town Hall, begged
for a lift to Greycross, thereby earning the gratitude of the two men,
who were in dread of collapse now that the strain was over. But
Cynthia had not the smallest intention of breaking down; her whole
mind was centred on Leslie and the necessity for instant action. What
form this was to take she had no idea, but inactivity had always irked
her and now, in the face of Leslie’s danger, she found it almost
unbearable. She sat huddled in a corner of the car, her mind working
feverishly, barely hearing the low-voiced conversation of the two men
and Miss Allen. With the wisdom of true sympathy they left her alone
with her thoughts, knowing that even a chance word might undermine her
control.

They dropped Miss Allen at Greycross. As the car started again, Fayre
glanced at Cynthia.

“All right?” he asked kindly.

She nodded.

“Quite. Only thinking. There must be something we can do, Uncle
Fayre!”

Kean roused himself from his abstraction.

“Want to get moving, eh?” he said in his incisive way. “I know how you
feel, but it’s no good trying to rush things. You did more for Leslie
than you realized at the inquest to-day. I’ve seldom heard a more
satisfactory witness. I congratulate you.” Cynthia’s eyes shone with
pleasure. As he had intended, his praise supplied just the tonic she
needed.

“I’ll tell you exactly what I propose to do,” he went on. “Then you
won’t feel that we are being idle. Directly I get back to town
to-morrow I will see the man I have in mind for Leslie. He is a young
solicitor I’ve had my eye on for some time. As keen as mustard and
with his name to make. He’ll do better for Leslie than one of the
older fellows who’ve settled into their grooves long ago. He’ll
probably come down here at once and see Leslie. Then, later, he’ll
brief me and if we don’t get your young man off between us, I shall be
surprised. Your job is to stand by and keep a brave face on things.
Let Leslie know that you believe in him and see that other people
realize it too. You’ve got Miss Allen on your side and, from the look
of it, a good portion of the people who were present to-day. That sort
of thing helps more than you may realize. See any reporters who may
approach you and talk to them. You’ve got nothing to hide, remember.
You won’t like it, of course, but keep in mind that the more
confidence you manage to inspire, the better, and you can do that best
by publicly advertising your own belief in Leslie. Make a point of the
fact that he had no motive for the crime. In short, carry on on the
lines you took at the inquest. The press can be an abominable
nuisance, but, fortunately, it can be used too. I leave that part of
the business in your hands. You’ve no idea how important it is.”

Later, after they had handed the girl over to Lady Staveley and were
sitting over the fire with Sybil Kean in the deserted billiard-room,
Fayre went back to the subject.

“That was clever of you, Edward,” he said. “And merciful. The inaction
was driving the child frantic. Now you have given her something to do
and made her feel that she has actually helped already.”

Lady Kean’s eyes stole to her husband’s face. To her, his tact and
consideration had always been unfailing, but it had never been his way
to show much kindness to others and she had often been half amused,
half exasperated, by the cold courtesy with which he had treated even
her closest friends. She felt very grateful to him now for his
gentleness to Cynthia.

“As a matter of fact,” he said slowly, “it wasn’t all eyewash. She can
be quite useful and it will keep her out of mischief. She’s got a head
on her shoulders and plenty of grit. Leslie’s a lucky man.”

“I only hope his luck won’t fail him now,” put in his wife.

“Don’t you worry, my dear,” Kean assured her. “We’ll pull him through,
all right. You needn’t lose any sleep over him!”

His hand was on hers and Fayre, after a glance at them, slipped out of
the room and settled himself by the fire in his bedroom. For one
thing, he wanted to think; for another, he possessed tact enough to
leave these two to their own devices till the time came for Kean to
catch the London train.

With a smile at his own childishness, he fell back on the
time-honoured method of all detectives of fiction and set to work with
a pencil and paper to get his thoughts in order.

According to Gregg, Mrs. Draycott had been shot some two hours before
Leslie discovered her body in the sitting-room at the farm. Going on
this assumption Fayre headed his paper:

“_March 23rd. Between six and seven, Mrs. Draycott shot._”

When he had finished, half an hour later, his notes ran as follows:

“_John Leslie. According to his own account at six o’clock was walking
across the fields in the direction of Besley. Motive: apparently none.
Have only his own explanation of his movements and of the empty
chamber in his revolver._”

“_Tramp seen by juryman outside Whitbury: May have no connection with
the person whose footsteps were found by the police outside the
sitting-room window at Leslie’s farm. Some one undoubtedly slept in
the barn on the day of the murder and this man was passing through
Whitbury at four o’clock. This would get him to the farm before six.
Motive: Robbery? May have been scared away by Leslie or the police._”

“_Cynthia Bell. Was at Galston Manor by six. Note: See lodge-keeper at
Galston for corroboration. Motive: None, unless she and Leslie are
keeping back Leslie’s possible connection with Mrs. Draycott in the
past. This is unlikely, as Mrs. Draycott herself stated that she had
never met Leslie._”

Fayre sat back in his chair and contemplated his handiwork. He did not
seem to have got very far. Then he picked up his pencil again.

“May as well go through the lot of them,” he muttered, out of patience
with his own futility.

“_Miss Allen. Was writing letters in her study at Greycross at six
o’clock. Motive: None, unless her disapproval of her sister’s mode of
life amounted to insanity. Does not impress one as a person likely to
go to extremes. Note: Find out whether she benefits to any extent
financially by her sister’s death, also whether she was seen by any of
the servants at Greycross round about six o’clock._”

While he was in the act of writing the last entry Kean’s words at the
hotel recurred to his mind: “Why ‘the man’?” Had he had Miss Allen in
his thoughts then, Fayre wondered?

He sat over the fire for a long time, his thoughts busy with the
problem of Miss Allen. He recalled her emphatic denial that her sister
had ever had any dealings with John Leslie, her letter to Cynthia.
Kean’s suggestion that Mrs. Draycott might have died at the hand of a
woman had come hot on his return from his visit to Miss Allen. Fayre
wished with all his heart that he had been present at that interview.
What had she told him?

As he dressed for dinner he was conscious of a growing resentment
against Kean. The more he pondered on his manner at the hotel, the
more he suspected that Kean had discovered something of importance at
Miss Allen’s, something, Fayre told himself with growing exasperation,
that to-morrow he would pass on as a matter of course to Leslie’s
solicitor. He did not blame Kean. He knew him well enough by now to
accept his methods, however annoying and inhuman they might seem; but
there was a streak of obstinacy in Fayre’s nature which responded to
just such treatment as he had received from his old friend and he felt
more than ever determined to take a hand in the game. He had offered
to meet Grey, the solicitor, at the station and Kean had not demurred.
He made up his mind to get as much out of him as possible and then
work on his own lines. He realized that these were disconcertingly
vague, so far.

The events of the next morning, however, opened out a possible field
of action. Crossing the hall, he ran into Dr. Gregg on his way to
visit Lady Kean. The doctor’s greeting was curt, but friendly.

“Have you heard that they’ve got our friend, the tramp, who was at the
farm that night?” he said. “The police seem to have moved fairly
quickly, for once.”

“Have they got anything out of him?”

“I don’t know. Except for old Gunnet, they’re a close-mouthed lot. The
fellow’s safe enough, at all events. Literally tied by the leg in the
infirmary at Whitbury. He was run down by a silly young ass on a motor
bike and got his ankle badly smashed. I gather that he was up at the
farm that night, meant to sleep there. Something seems to have
frightened him off at the last minute. Probably the arrival of the
police. If he does turn out to be the chap that did it, Leslie’s
troubles are over.”

“Leslie’s solicitor is coming to-day and I’m by way of meeting him. I
suppose he will be allowed access to this man if he wants to see him?”

“I imagine so. Can I be of any use? I’m for Whitbury after this and
can run you over in about half an hour’s time.”

Fayre accepted the invitation, glad of the chance to talk to the man,
of all others, most likely to know the neighbourhood well. Gregg had
not impressed him very favourably at the inquest and he did not take
to him now. As a witness he had seemed almost surly; to-day, no doubt
in an effort to be agreeable, he was garrulous and, at the same time,
ill at ease. Fayre knew that he had the reputation of being a clever
doctor, though something of a vulgarian.

Lord Staveley joined him as he was collecting his hat and coat in the
hall and confirmed his impression of the man.

“Clever chap, Gregg,” he said. “To tell you the truth, I’m not sorry
to have him on hand when Sybil’s here. It’s always a bit of a
responsibility and I sometimes think Kean would murder us if anything
happened to her. Amazing, the way the fellow’s wrapped up in her.
Never would have thought he was that sort. My wife’s about the one
person he’ll trust to look after her. Thank goodness, Gregg’s
dependable.”

“A queer fellow,” commented Fayre thoughtfully. “A bit of a rough
diamond, isn’t he?”

Lord Staveley laughed.

“Very much so. Didn’t get on with the old women round here at all at
first. However, the old chap at Whitbury is such a dud that they had
to come round. Now they swear by him. He’s a self-made man. Son of a
vet up in the North, so they say.”

As he spoke, Gregg appeared at the top of the staircase and he and
Fayre were soon on their way to the Junction.

“A bad business, this of Leslie’s, if they find they haven’t got their
man, after all,” said Gregg in his abrupt way. “I met Lady Cynthia on
the stairs and she looked pretty hipped. It isn’t doing my patient any
good, either.”

“You’re not anxious about her?” put in Fayre quickly.

“She’s no worse, if that’s what you mean, but she can’t stand worry. I
should be better pleased if she was out of all this. If I had my way
she’d be in her bed in London now.”

“What do you think of Leslie’s chances?”

“Bad. You and I know he isn’t the sort to do a thing like that, but
the evidence is strong against him. Depends what sort of old women
they get on the Jury, if it comes to that. I hope it won’t, now
they’ve got this tramp.”

“There’s the lack of motive. Personally, I don’t believe he ever saw
Mrs. Draycott in his life until that night. You were there, weren’t
you? How did he impress you?”

“He was speaking the truth, all right. He behaved just as you or I
would have done under the circumstances. It’s a nasty jar to find the
body of a strange lady in your sitting-room. On the whole, he took it
very well.”

“I wish they could find some clue as to why Mrs. Draycott ever went to
the farm. I believe the secret of the whole wretched business lies
there.”

“It’s a mystery. Though, from what I’ve heard of the lady, that’s not
the queerest of the many queer things she seems to have been up to,”
said Gregg dryly.

“There’s been gossip already, has there? Bound to be, I suppose.
Still, they might have let the poor creature rest in peace.”

“If you lived in this neighbourhood you’d know that that was the last
thing they’d be likely to do. If what they’re saying is true, she was
no loss.”

Fayre was struck by the bitterness of his tone.

“You never met her, did you?” he asked.

“I must have paid a couple of calls at Staveley while she was there,
but I did not run across her. From all accounts, though, she was a
pretty average rotter.”

Gregg’s tone was brutal and Fayre felt his instinctive dislike for the
man increase.

“I’ve come across that type once or twice in the course of my life and
I don’t blame the man that killed her,” Gregg went on. “She probably
richly deserved it.”

“Well, the poor woman’s dead and, unfortunately, her secret, whatever
it was, has died with her,” answered Fayre, in a voice calculated to
put an end to the discussion.

But Gregg was not so easily quenched.

“Very pretty sentiment,” he allowed, with something very like a sneer.
“But it’s neither just nor logical. It’s a hard fact that the evil
people do lives after them and I don’t believe in the whitewashing
process myself. The world’s the better for her removal, so why not say
so?”

“That’s a strong thing to say of a woman who, at the worst, was only
heartless and calculating, and, considering that I only knew her
slightly and you not at all, it seems a good deal to assume,” Fayre
reminded him. He was interested, in spite of himself, in the viewpoint
of a man who could work himself up to such a pitch of resentment
against a woman who, after all, was a stranger to him. His first
instinct had been to drop the subject, but now he found himself trying
to draw out the doctor.

“In my experience, it’s the stupid, greedy people who do the real harm
in this world, not the wicked ones. The bad man works with an object
and, once that’s gained, is usually content to let his neighbour
alone. The stupid man blunders on in his imbecile way, leaving a trail
of mischief behind him.”

“You would put down Mrs. Draycott as a stupid woman?”

Fayre had been struck himself by the dense strata of obtuseness that
lay beneath Mrs. Draycott’s surface acuteness and he was surprised at
the accuracy with which Gregg seemed to have diagnosed her.

“From what I hear, she was of the blunt-fingered, blunt-minded type
and a born petty schemer. However, I may be wrong. I’m going by
hearsay, you know.”

“It’s curious how people get hold of their information,” said Fayre
thoughtfully. “I don’t suppose more than half a dozen people in this
neighbourhood had ever met her.”

“They read their papers, though, and she’s been before the public more
than once, you must remember. Also, the mere fact that she was Miss
Allen’s sister would be enough to draw attention to her. After all,
there was the Dare Case.”

“She was mixed up in that, was she? I’ve been out of England for so
long that I’ve missed things.”

“She was called as a witness and came out of it pretty badly, as far
as I can remember. I don’t read those things much myself.”

“All the same, you seem to have got your knife into her pretty
thoroughly,” remarked Fayre dryly.

The doctor sat silent for a moment.

“I’m afraid I rather let myself go on the subject of stupidity,” he
said at last. “It’s a thing we doctors are always up against and we
get to hate it. I was probably doing Mrs. Draycott a gross injustice.”

He seemed to realize that he had said too much, for, in spite of
Fayre’s attempts to get out of him the exact form the gossip had
taken, he kept resolutely off the subject during the rest of the drive
to the station.

The London train was late and as Fayre sat waiting on the platform he
read over the notes he had made the night before. After some thought,
he added a memorandum on Dr. Gregg.

“_Seems curiously well-informed as to Mrs. Draycott’s past and general
characteristics and is almost vindictive in his attitude towards her.
Did not reach the scene of the murder till ten o’clock. Up till then,
movements unknown, but was probably with patients. If possible, find
out from Leslie whether he noticed anything unusual in his manner at
the farm._”

Grey, the solicitor, turned out to be an even younger man than Fayre
had expected, but he was, as Kean had predicted, very much on the spot
and not only ready, but anxious, to discuss the case. His first object
was to see Leslie, and he arranged to go straight to the police
station and meet Fayre at the hotel on his return. Fayre told him of
the arrest of the tramp, and Grey undertook to procure a permit to
visit the infirmary. He did not imagine that any objection would be
raised to Fayre’s presence at the interview with the patient.

They parted in High Street and, as luck would have it, Fayre almost
immediately ran into Gunnet, the constable from Keys. Fayre was known
to him, both as a friend of Lady Cynthia’s and as a guest at Staveley,
and, being off duty, he saw no objection to stepping into the hotel
and accepting the offer of a glass of beer. He had little of interest
to relate. Two things he did say which had some bearing on Fayre’s
notes of the evening before.

“I stepped up to Galston yesterday,” he remarked, “and had a few words
with Doggett, the lodge-keeper there. He informed me that he let the
young lady in at the gates shortly before five-thirty and she did not
go out again till she passed through in the motor on her way to Miss
Allen’s.”

“That tallies with what she and Mr. Leslie said at the inquest.”

“It does. Come to that, beggin’ your pardon, sir, I’ve known her
ladyship since she was so high and she wasn’t never one to tell a
crooked story. I’d take her word anywhere, and so would any one in
Keys. What I did, I had to do, in the way of duty, if you understand
me.”

Fayre nodded.

“Anything settled about the funeral?” he asked.

“The body’s to be moved to Hampshire, I understand. The family grave
is there and Miss Allen wished it. Very trying for Miss Allen, the
whole thing, though they do say she’s come into a bit of money as next
of kin, seeing as the deceased left no will.”

Gunnet departed, leaving Fayre with further food for reflection. He
was very thoughtful as he strolled through the little town, whiling
away the time until Grey should return from his visit to Leslie. By
the time the solicitor joined him, armed with the permit, he had
decided that, reluctant as he felt to do so, he would have to place
Miss Allen in his category of suspected persons.

They found the tramp, a small, grey, shrunken individual, neatly
tucked up in the accident ward of the infirmary with a cradle over his
injured leg. As a potential murderer Fayre found him disappointing. He
had already gathered from Gunnet that the police were inclined to
accept his statement that he was not at the farm at the time the crime
was committed. At the same time he seemed unable to produce a
satisfactory alibi. One thing was obvious, the man was scared, though
he tried to hide it under an assumption of indifference.

Grey questioned him closely as to his movements on the night of the
twenty-third. He admitted that he had intended to sleep at the farm
and described how he had looked through the window into the
sitting-room and been frightened away by what he had seen there. He
corroborated the statement of the juryman that he had left Whitbury
about four in the afternoon, arriving at the corner of the lane
leading to the farm at about five-thirty. According to his statement
he then rested for about an hour on the grass by the roadside, not
wishing to try the farm while any one was likely to be about in the
yard. He had then retraced his steps down the highroad, intending to
try his luck at the Lodge at Galston in the hope of begging some food.
Here, however, he was frightened away by the barking of a dog and
returned to the lane, this time going up to the farm. Finding no one
about, he made his way to the barn and crept into the loft, meaning to
stay the night there. He remained in the barn till about eight, when
he was driven out by hunger. Then it was that he made the discovery
that resulted in his abrupt departure from the neighbourhood of the
farm.

“It wasn’t likely I should stay there, after what I’d seen, now was
it?” he demanded indignantly.

“You might have informed the police,” suggested Grey.

“The police! Not me! Let them find out for themselves. It’s what
they’re paid for!”

“Then from five-thirty to six-thirty, according to your account, you
were lying in the grass at the corner of the lane,” said Grey,
consulting his notes.

“As true as I lie ’ere. I never went near the place till I went up to
the loft at seven or thereabouts.”

“No one saw you? You didn’t beg from any one while you were at the
corner of the lane and the highroad?”

“Not a soul come near me save a car or two. Not a soul that’d speak
for me. I ain’t got no luck, I ’aven’t. Never ’ad!” The little man’s
voice was bitter.

Fayre bent over him, struck by a sudden idea.

“Nothing turned up the lane to the farm while you were lying there,
did it?” he asked.

A gleam of suspicion crept into the tramp’s furtive eyes. He
distrusted everybody on principle, especially people who asked abrupt
questions, but he had not the courage or the intelligence to lie.

“There was one car,” he admitted cautiously. “They wouldn’t ’ave seen
me, though. It was dark and I was out of range of the lights.”

Grey took up the interrogation eagerly, speaking softly so that his
words should not reach the ears of the policeman sitting in the chair
by the window.

“Can you remember what the car was like? Was it too dark to see who
was in it?”

The little man looked at him with weary scorn. He was tired of being
on the defensive and wanted, above all things, to be left alone.

“Pitch-dark, it was, nearly. I couldn’t ’ave recognized the Prince of
Wales in all ’is feathers.”

“You’ve no idea of the colour of the car, or how many people were in
it?” persisted Grey.

“You can’t see no colours in the dark. There was two people in it,
though, unless one was the shofer. It come close to me, takin’ the
turn, and I see the two heads. I did think one was a woman, but I
don’t know why. It was pretty dark.”

“It went up to the farm, you say?”

“I don’t know where it went. How should I? It went up the lane, like I
told you.”

“What time was this?”

“Just before I went along the road to the Lodge. About an hour after I
lay down at the corner.”

“You are sure of the time, more or less?”

The tramp groaned.

“I don’t carry no watch, mister. Anyway, they couldn’t ’ave seen me,
so it don’t prove nothing, either way.”

Fayre hitched up his chair nearer to the bed, his friendly gaze on the
man’s face.

“I’ve been on trek myself without a watch,” he said cheerily, “and had
to go by the skies. It’s a gift in itself and I’ll wager you’re as
good a hand as any at calculating time. What time would you put it at,
now?”

The man observed him shrewdly for a moment. Then:

“Seein’ as you’re the first as ’as spoke to me friendlylike since I’ve
been ’ere I’ll tell you as near as may be. Gettin’ on for half-past
six, I should say it was.”

“And more likely right than a dozen watches. Can you remember if it
was a big car?”

The tramp nodded.

“Goin’ a lick of a pace, too. And what’s more, I see it again, goin’
back. And it was fair scorchin’ then.”

“Where was that?”

“On the road, just as I was comin’ away from that there Lodge.”

“Much later?”

“Twenty minutes or perhaps twenty-five, I’d put it.”

Fayre’s little bit of flattery had done its work and the man was now
anxious to show off his ability to reckon time.

“It was going fast, you say?”

“Dangerous fast, I should call it. If I’d been a bit nearer the corner
it’d ’ave caught me. As it was, it come near to smashin’ up a
farm-cart that was goin’ peaceable and quiet down the main road. The
carter didn’t ’alf ’ave something to say about it and I don’t blame
’im.”

“Too dark to see the farm-cart, I suppose? You wouldn’t know the
carter?”

“Wouldn’t reckernize ’im, though ’e passed me close a minute or two
later. The cart ’ad a white ’orse, though. I see that in the light of
the lamps. And I see the man in the car, too, when the light ’it ’im.
He was alone then.”

“You couldn’t identify him?” asked Fayre quickly.

But the man shook his head.

“I only see ’im for a second,” he said.

Fayre rose to his feet.

“We’ll look up that carter,” he said decisively. “After all, he may
have seen _you_ in the light of the lamps. If he did, you’ve got your
alibi. Good-by and good luck. I hope your leg’s mending.”

For the first time the man’s gloom lifted. Fayre’s friendliness was,
as usual, infectious and the tramp looked after him with something of
the wistfulness of a stray dog.

“Good luck to _you_, mister,” he croaked in his hoarse voice.

Back at the hotel Grey went carefully through his notes.

“Not a bad morning’s work, on the whole,” he said. “I shouldn’t wonder
if that car brought Mrs. Draycott.”

Fayre nodded thoughtfully.

“It looks like it. She was in thin evening slippers when they found
her and it struck me at the inquest that she could never have walked
that distance in them. And it went back without her and that poor
little beggar at the infirmary never grasped the importance of what
he’d seen. I wonder if the police got as much out of him as we did!”

Grey laughed.

“I’m willing to bet they didn’t. He’s a suspicious customer and
wouldn’t say more than he was obliged and he obviously didn’t think it
worth the telling. What about tackling the carter? It shouldn’t take
long to run him to earth, given the white horse and the collision.”

Fayre thought of Kean and the snubbing he had received at his hands
and hugged himself. Now, at last, he had a definite plan of action.

“I’ll tackle the carter,” he said gleefully, “and let you know how I
get on.”
