Chapter XXXIX

.
                              A GOOD OMEN.


The six months were past.

Behold! upon a lofty hill, surrounded by magnificent beeches, whose
overhanging boughs make a royal arch of green above the smoothly
graveled drive-way that encircles it, stands a grand old castle, the
very air around which breathes of centuries and aristocracy.

On this brilliant day its massive portals were swung wide open.

A magnificent floral arch was erected over the wide entrance, while
above it, in letters of gilt, is inscribed that sweetest of words,
WELCOME! And garlands and festoons hung suspended through every room and
hall, as if clad in holiday attire, in honor of loved and long expected
guests.

The great drawing-room on the left of the grand old hall is redolent
with the richest perfume, and within it, pacing up and down its spacious
length, clad in her rich and trailing robes, is the fair mistress of all
this grandeur and magnificence—lovely Enid Chichester.

Hope and joy beam in her eyes, a flush is upon her soft cheek, which
creeps higher and higher with every passing moment, while smiles part
her ruby lips, showing the gleaming pearls between.

Suddenly she starts; a happy, expectant look is upon her face, as she
bends eagerly forward in a listening attitude.

Yes, she is not deceived; the sound of approaching wheels, grating upon
the graveled drive-way, comes in through the open hall, and with a
joyous cry she bounds out to receive her friends.

Three heavy traveling carriages drew up before the hospitable door,
their glowing occupants alighted and immediately all was gay confusion;
handshaking until the bones ached, kissing and congratulations.

At last all was over and settled in his or her respective apartments,
and the next two or three days were given up to resting, after their
long and tedious journey.

Enid did the honors as mistress, as she did everything else, gracefully,
and dispensed her hospitality with a lavish hand, her heart overflowing
with excess of joy in the happiness she was contributing and receiving.

One morning, soon after the arrival, she arose early, and descending the
grand old stairway, went, softly humming to herself, into the library,
where she intended to have a quiet hour all her own, before her guests
should come down to breakfast.

The morning sun streamed brightly in through the low, open window, which
led out upon a balcony overlooking the park. With a sigh of pleasure
Enid seated herself in an inviting arm-chair, and lay back among its
cushions, with a smile of happiness upon her sweet lips, wholly
forgetful of the book she held in her hand, and which she had intended
reading, and wholly unconscious that a pair of fine dark eyes were
tenderly regarding her from behind the heavy curtains which draped the
balcony window.

Neither did she hear a step upon the soft carpet, or realize the
presence of any one, until a fragrant waxen capejasmine was suddenly
dropped from above into her lap.

She started then, and looked quickly up, but flushed the deepest
crimson, as she met the earnest gaze of Ralph Ellerton, who was bending
over the back of her chair.

“Why, good-morning, Mr. Ellerton,” she said, striving to cover her
confusion by speaking lightly. “How you surprised me. I thought I was
the only one stirring so early this morning.”

“Pardon me for startling you, but I have been up since sunrise,

                     ‘Over the hills and far away.’

I have but just come in, and stepped out upon the balcony to enjoy the
glorious view.”

“It is fine, isn’t it? Poor papa used to enjoy it so much,” she replied,
sadly, the tears springing to her eyes; then added, “This was always his
favorite resort, and he would sit for hours upon the balcony and gaze
upon the scenery around.”

She picked up the flower he had thrown into her lap, inhaled its
fragrance, and then fastened it upon her bosom.

He smiled slightly at the act, and she, suddenly looking up, caught his
eye fixed upon her, and again the rich blood suffused her face, but she
did not remove the flower.

“Enid,” said Ralph, tenderly, “may I interpret that as a good omen? May
I tell you of my love after waiting so long?”

“There is no need to tell it, Ralph; I knew it long ago,” she replied,
in tones as tender, and with an irresistible frankness.

“Darling, your tones tell me if your words do not, that you return it,
unworthy as I am,” he said, as he passionately clasped her in his arms.

“Yes, Ralph, I do; I loved you before I left that horrid cavern, and it
almost broke my heart when I thought you the husband of another. But
even after I found you were free again, I would not encourage you to
speak the words which I knew were on your lips, for I wished to try you
first, to prove the good I felt there was in you.”

“Bless you for your frankness; but you will perhaps be surprised when I
tell you that my heart forgot its allegiance to that other the moment I
first beheld you.”

“Then why did you persist?” hastily interrupted Enid, raising her
radiant face in surprise, then blushing scarlet again as she remembered
it must wound him to be thus reminded of the past.

“It is all right, darling,” he returned, noticing her confusion, and
clasping her again to him. “I wish you to know me just as I am. I
persisted in the evil I had begun, merely because my will and my pride
would not yield to my heart. But I cannot express the gratitude I feel
for the gift of your precious love. I know——”

“Now, Ralph, you are not to talk that way any more. You have done wrong,
and you own it and repent of it. It is enough. None are perfect, and I
have my faults, as you will find out one of these days. I love you just
as you are now, not what you may have been a long time ago, so please
don’t disparage my lover to me any more,” and the bright-eyed little
maiden held up two pouting lips.

She received what she wished, and then Ralph asked, tenderly:

“And you will be my wife, Enid?”

“Yes, Ralph.”

“When, darling?”

“Whenever you wish.”

“God bless you, my precious one; let it be soon, then, for I need you
much, and I think you know it.”

They conversed some time longer, and when the breakfast bell sounded,
and their friends descended, the day was decided upon.

Ralph led his promised bride directly to his father and mother, and
proclaimed the good news; and then breakfast had to be delayed, much to
the annoyance of the worthy housekeeper, half an hour, for the joyful
congratulations of all that happy company.

After breakfast was over, Enid, with a very mysterious air drew Dora and
Vivien away to impart a very important bit of information, as she called
it, to them, namely:

That she was to be married in three weeks.

“I know,” she said, as both the girls held up their hands in dismay at
the limited time, “that it usually takes six months, at least, to
complete the trousseau of a fashionable young lady; but I think I can do
better than that; and then, poor Ralph is so sad and lonely, I am going
to humor him in this. You both must be my bridesmaids; and Vivien, would
you be willing to stand up with Mr. Weimher? I don’t think he would
object to you,” said the sparkling girl, mischievously.

Vivien blushed and stammered, and then broke down entirely. At last she
saw it was no use to try and hide it longer, and made a clean breast of
it, confessing that she was engaged to that same gentleman.

“Ah! you rogue, I mistrusted you long ago,” said Dora. “You little
goose, why did you try to keep it so still?”

“Because I wished the consent and congratulations of my uncles, first.
Mr. Weimher spoke to them yesterday, and we were to acknowledge the
engagement to-day. But you see how you have robbed me of my secret, you
heartless girls!”

She laughed gayly, though the tell-tale color still remained upon her
fair face.

Just then there was a rap upon the door, and a maid entered saying that
Miss Dupont and Miss Moulton were requested to step into the library for
a few moments.

The two girls twined their arms about each other’s waists and
wonderingly obeyed the summons. In the room designated they found their
lovers, who, likewise having been informed of the approaching nuptials
of their hostess, now importuned their own fair brides-elect to consent
to don the matrimonial bonds upon the same day, and thus make a triple
wedding of the affair. Both demurred at first, but finally the ardent
gentlemen overcame all obstacles, and, consenting, they immediately
vanished to communicate the news to their fair hostess.

Enid was in raptures, declaring that theirs should be a wedding, such as
was never heard of before in the annals of Chichester history.

Then ensued three weeks of such bustle and confusion as made worthy Mrs.
Judson, the housekeeper, nearly distracted, and the servants were kept
flying hither and thither from early morn till dewy eve.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The bridal morn broke calm, clear, and beautiful. The hour appointed for
the ceremony arrived, and the three beautiful girls, clad in their white
gleaming robes, with no ornaments save nature’s sweetness—pure and
fragrant orange blossoms—were ready to confide themselves for life into
the keeping of their hearts’ chosen ones.

Three chariots, each drawn by a noble pair of milk-white steeds, bore
them from the Chichester mansion to the distant cathedral, where the
bishop waited to speak the irrevocable words, and where anxious friends
were waiting to witness the brilliant wedding.

Ralph and Enid led the way up the broad aisle to the foot of the sacred
altar, and the words were spoken which bound them to each other for
life.

Then Fredrich and Vivien pledged their vows, and likewise received the
benediction of the holy man.

Last, but not least, Robert and Dora joined their hands and
re-pronounced the vows uttered in childhood, and which had been so
faithfully and fondly kept through sorrows and trials, and in defiance
of all disappointments and opposition.

Never had the lovely girl looked more beautiful, nor her lover more
strikingly noble and handsome, than at that moment when, in solemn,
earnest tones, they repeated the marriage service that gave them anew to
each other.

Faithful hearts they truly were, and faithful we know they will ever
remain; and there in their happiness and love we will leave them,
bidding them a long farewell, trusting that the lives of each and all
may be a succession of blessings, so bright that they will never fade
until the greater brightness and glory of heaven and eternity shall
burst upon them, enveloping them in endless bliss.


                               [THE END.]