Chapter XXIX

.
                        IN THE SMUGGLERS’ CAVE.


Every eye was turned like a flash upon the intruder, and the chief, with
a fearful oath, sprang toward him, with a gleam of startled fear in his
eye notwithstanding his dauntless bearing.

He would have seized in his rough grasp him who had thus defied him in
his den; but stepping back a pace or two, Fredrich Weimher turned his
flashing eyes full upon the towering form before him, and said, in
clear, ringing tones:

“Not another step, sir! I warn you!”

His heavy revolver was raised, and covered the defeated villain’s heart,
and grinding his teeth in bitter rage, he retreated a step, for he saw
that courage and determination lurked in the young man’s eyes.

He could not help admiring him too, for, though armed to the teeth, few
would have dared to come into the presence of so large a number of his
band, even though they were entirely defenseless.

He could not account for the strange circumstance. How could he have
gained an entrance to his fortress? There must be treachery somewhere,
unless——A sudden thought struck him; he looked again, and then his eyes
gleamed with such a fire of rage and hate that a stronger man than he
might have quailed beneath it.

“Ha!” he roared; “I know you now!—curses on you! You shall not escape me
a second time! Fool that I was, not to finish you when I had the
chance!”

“Sir?” demanded Fredrich, in his turn surprised.

“Sir! You needn’t sir me, you young Paul Pry; I told you your meddlesome
disposition would yet lead you into trouble.”

“Ah! yes, now I understand you, although for the moment I did not
recognize you,” replied Fredrich, smiling calmly.

“And you have broken your oath never to reveal to mortal man what you
knew of this place,” returned the chief, more and more amazed at his
calm, self-possessed manner, while those around were speechless with
surprise, that any one should thus dare to “beard the lion in his lair.”

“How do you know I have broken my oath?”

“How do I know? Is not your presence here alone sufficient proof? Who is
your companion in this hazardous expedition?”

“If you remember rightly, my oath was worded thus—that I would never
tell any one where the entrance to the cave was to be found. I have
literally kept my word. I have not told, but I have come myself to
release my friends whom you hold as captives. I have come to stop that
fiendish business,” he said, pausing, and pointing to Dora’s lifeless
form. “That villain says I am too late; but a short time will serve to
prove that I am not.”

“Curse you! do you think I am going to stand this insolence, and from a
mere boy? Seize him, and bind him instantly!” he cried, turning to his
band, and fairly foaming at the mouth with rage.

Several men sprang forward to do his bidding, while he shouted to the
rest:

“To arms, all of you! There is a traitor in the camp, I’ll swear.”

“Hold!”

The word was echoed from a dozen different points of that enormous room,
and instantly the drapery was swept aside from as many places, and from
each entrance emerged five or six stalwart men, with pistols cocked, and
otherwise armed to the teeth.

Every smuggler stood mute and terror-stricken; they saw at once the
fearful odds against them, and knew that resistance would be useless. In
sullen silence they awaited the result of this fearful and unexpected
interruption of their wedding gayeties.

“Edgerton, place your men in position, and shoot the first man that
moves or resists,” commanded Fredrich Weimher, in a clear, ringing tone.

Ronald Edgerton and about twenty-five men filed along at one end of the
room, and at a word of command from him each raised his weapon, and held
it ready for action.

The smugglers gazed in terror around, but every entrance had an armed
sentinel, and not a chance of escape was possible.

“Forward and bind these villains, every one of them!” shouted Fredrich,
and boldly springing forward to lead the attack.

The scene which followed was exciting beyond description.

Those great lawless men, who for years had fearlessly roamed the world
at large, committing their crimes, and the most daring acts
conceivable—who were a terror and a dread to all who knew of their
existence—were now rendered powerless in a single instant.

The fame of an artist, who could have faithfully transferred to his
canvas that brilliant, gorgeous room, with its strange and excited
occupants, would forever have been established, and his praises sung
throughout the world.

See them!

That company of conquerors, with their flushed, eager faces, weapons
raised and aimed at the hearts of the baffled villains, Fredrich
Weimher’s men, with coils of stout cord in their hands, and in the act
of springing forward to bind their helpless foes.

The smugglers, with their sullen, terror-pale faces, their confused and
faltering manner, gazing half beseechingly, half menacingly at their
hitherto infallible chief, who, with white and foaming lips, frantic
eyes, despairing mien, stood stunned and dismayed before them. While on
one side were the beautiful maidens, huddled together, shivering and
gazing with a sort of horrible fascination upon the scene before them,
though in their faces one might read of hopeful hearts beating beneath
their colorless features.

Opposite this group, and seated upon the floor of the altar, was Madame
Alroyd, holding the senseless bride clasped in her trembling arms, while
Ralph, the clergyman, and Nina were bending anxiously over them, and
applying restoratives.

Last, but not least, was the astonished squire, who stood with his gray
locks streaming back, his eyes protruding from their sockets, his face
shrunken and livid with fear and rage, while his hands worked backward
and forward, and his whole attitude betraying uncertainty and doubt.

They seized and bound the much-dreaded chief first, who, though he
cursed and raved fearfully, dared not offer resistance. The rest, now
that their leader was secured, were a comparatively easy conquest,
though the words which fell from their lips were horrible to hear, and
the expression of their faces fearful to behold.

There were only about twenty-five of them present, and these were all
quickly and firmly bound, and then placed under a guard upon one side of
the room.

When the last one was disposed of those lovely captives could restrain
themselves no longer. They clasped each other in their arms, weeping and
laughing by turns for joy.

They felt that their time for release was near at hand, that loving arms
would soon encircle them, and hearts that long since mourned them as
dead would beat once again with joy and thankfulness at their
resurrection, as it were.

Vivien Lamerack, or Moulton, alone had retained her self-possession
through the whole scene, and now stood regarding the handsome leader of
this glorious enterprise, her lovely, earnest eyes filled with
profoundest admiration.

Poor Enid Chichester knew nothing whatever of what was transpiring
around her, for the moment the curtains had parted, revealing Ralph
leading in his lovely bride, she had uttered a faint cry, and then sunk
softly down into the depths of a massive chair and quietly swooned away;
and there she had remained, wholly unconscious, no one noticing or
realizing what had happened to her, so intent were all upon the exciting
scene before her.

Ralph’s whole attention, after the first moment of startled surprise,
had been devoted to his senseless bride, who continued to lay pale and
still, as if death had already claimed her for his own. When he would
have raised her in his arms Madame Alroyd waved him sternly off, and
taking her to her own heart, bent with streaming eyes over her, calling
pitifully upon her to awake, while Ralph at last, conscience-stricken,
remained standing silently and sadly by.

Suddenly he raised his eyes, and saw his uncle stealing noiselessly
toward one of the outlets of the room.

There was a most sinister expression upon his evil face, which, upon
interpreting, Ralph’s heart grew still with a deathly horror for a
moment, then instantly bounding with new life and a sudden
determination, he left the sad group at the altar and quickly followed
his retreating figure.

The squire, on lifting the drapery at the door, discovered a guard; but
a lightning blow dropped him senseless, and he sped with flying steps in
the direction of Mr. Ellerton’s cell, feeling the sharp edge of a dagger
as he went, and muttering to himself:

“Now’s my time—now’s my time!”