Chapter XII

.
                                TRAPPED.


The day following broke clear, bright and beautiful, and at an early
hour a vast crowd was assembled in the great hall of —— Institute.

It was commencement day! That day so dreaded, while at the same time it
possesses a strange fascination to every one who attains the position of
a graduate.

The examination exercises of the few days past had passed off
satisfactorily alike to professor and pupil; and now the last day of
all, the great day, had arrived, that was to give to the class of
faithful students, the honors they had so valiantly battled for, and so
bravely won!

The orations were delivered, the diplomas given, and each and all had
performed his allotted part except the valedictorian.

The band in attendance suddenly sent forth a burst of rich triumphant
music, as if proclaiming the victory of one who had won the first honors
through all his college course, and who now was about to be crowned
victor and conqueror!

The music ceased, and the crowd sat in almost breathless silence,
awaiting the appearance of the hero of the day. He came and bowed low
and gracefully, was greeted with a burst of enthusiastic applause,
and—our friend Robert Ellerton stands before us.

He it is, who by hard labor, and close application, has borne off the
highest prize, who has taken the first place in all his classes, and now
stands before an anxiously waiting audience, with the first honor of the
day, to deliver the valedictory!

It is delivered in the German language, and as his voice rises clear and
deep, floating over that vast assembly, and filling every niche and
corner of that grand edifice, not a movement is made; not a whisper
heard; scarcely a breath drawn; and as the young orator gradually loses
himself in his theme, and mounts higher and higher, carrying every
listener with him, it seems almost as if the hush of death was on the
air, or as if every living, breathing form of a few moments before, had
turned to sculptured marble!

Oh, what a tribute is such breathless silence to eloquence! Who can ask
for more? Who would wish for more?

For an hour the thrall was upon them, and when our hero resumed his
seat, shout after shout rose up from the throats of the multitude, and
rent the air with their bursts of approbation and praise. Handkerchiefs
were waved, and hands were clapped, while a few of the more aristocratic
of the crowd threw bouquets of choice and fragrant hothouse flowers at
his feet.

Once he stooped to raise one; and then arose and bowed gracefully in
acknowledgment of the tribute.

The bouquet that he raised was the loveliest cluster of flowers one ever
saw; formed of pure waxen tuberoses and heath.

In vain he looked around to see whence the offering came. No one
answered his look of inquiry; only his eyes fell upon the flushed and
lovely face of a young girl, who was sitting quietly smiling to herself,
while her downcast orbs and heightened color, and the tears sparkling
upon her long, heavy lashes, told that her very soul had been moved by
the glowing eloquence of the young orator.

Why did Robert Ellerton’s heart leap so suddenly and fiercely within his
bosom as his gaze rested upon the fair girl?

He bent eagerly forward for a better view of her lovely features.

They seemed strangely familiar—strangely like the face of one who had
long been cherished and enshrined within the holy of holies of his
heart, and he felt almost sure that the elegant floral offering had come
from her dainty hand.

He cast his eyes again upon the flowers, and started as he saw, coiled
between the pure leaves, a little perfumed note.

He quivered in every nerve as he drew it quickly from its hiding-place,
and unfolded it.

A cry almost burst from his lips as the words within met his gaze. They
were simple, chaste, yet breathing an intense longing for the one to
whom they were addressed.

  “Robbie, I am here; I could not stay away. Oh, come and tell me if I
  am welcome.

                                                                   DORA.

  “At the Glenburn House.”

For a moment he sat clasping that precious missive, in a trance of
motionless delight. He almost feared to move lest he should break the
spell. His face was pale as marble, and he could scarcely credit the
evidence of his own senses. He feared to raise his eyes lest the vision
should have vanished, and he find it all a dream.

Poor Robert! Poor Dora! That moment of hesitation was fatal to both!

Dora timidly raised her eyes to him, while his were bent in their
riveted gaze upon her note; and his pale, cold look, as she interpreted
it, struck a chill to her heart, and with a look of deep disappointment
upon her lovely face, she turned with a heavy sigh, to obey her aunt,
who called for her to go; for the band had ceased its music, and the
throng was dispersing.

When Robert recovered himself, and sprang eagerly to his feet to seek
his darling, he saw her leaving the hall.

He curbed his disappointment as best he could, though still clinging
fondly to the precious bouquet, and resolving, the moment he was at
liberty, to seek her at the Glenburn House.

Other parties had been present to witness Robert Ellerton’s triumph, and
a mad jealousy burned within the hearts of both the Ralph Moultons at
the well-merited homage he received.

Their eyes had greedily devoured the little by-play of the bouquet and
the note. And an expression of satisfaction gleamed from Ralph’s dark
and fiery eyes, as he took in at a single glance the position of
affairs, and realized how keen and fierce would be the agony of his
rival, ere the day should close.

Another still had listened, rapt and spell-bound, to the thrilling
eloquence of the valedictorian, with a heart that was well-nigh bursting
with pride and affection for the noble young man who was his all—his
only child!

Yes, Mr. Ellerton, having been detained by the breaking of a part of the
carriage in which he was traveling, had only arrived just as his son
arose from his seat to utter his farewell to those with whom he had
spent so pleasantly and so profitably the past six years.

Mr. Ellerton looked weary and worn, as if he had missed something out of
his life during the past six years, and was lonely and hungry after a
morsel of love. But his thin face lighted up with joy and affection as
he feasted his eyes upon the manly beauty of his son. The rolling years
had removed every trace of bitterness from his heart, and he was willing
to concede everything, could he but once again clasp Robert to his
breast.

Poor, mistaken father, thou didst commit a grave error when thou didst
banish thine only son from thy love and presence. Ay, gaze fondly upon
him, as he stands there so noble, and so like one inspired! Revel in his
brilliant powers and intellect! gloat over him with all thy father’s
fondness, for he is worthy of it. Yet he and thou wilt suffer much of
sorrow and misery ere ye shall meet again. And ye little dream that that
fond look had nearly been the last!

But we will return to Robert.

He was eagerly pressing his way through the crowd, when he felt a light
touch upon his arm.

Looking around, he saw a little fellow neatly and simply dressed, who
held a note up to him.

“Who sent it?” he asked, as he took it from the boy.

“A gentleman with white hair,” he respectfully answered, and which was
true, for Ralph had cunningly given the note to his uncle to send by the
boy.

With a beating heart Robert hastily tore it open, and read the following
lines:

  “MY DEAR SON:—

  “I arrived to-day, but not in time to see you before the exercises
  commenced. Come to me at once, for my heart aches to welcome my long
  absent boy to my arms. Come quickly to your impatient father.

                                                       “ROBERT ELLERTON.

  “The hotels are all full, so I have been obliged to take up with such
  accommodations as I can get. The bearer of the note will conduct you
  to me.

                                                                  R. E.”

“When was this note given to you?” he asked again, turning to the boy,
and with a joyous smile upon his fine face.

“Just a few minutes since, sir.”

“Which way did the gentleman go?” asked Robert, with a sharp glance over
the boy.

“I will show you, sir,” he replied, quickly dropping his eyes before
Robert’s clear gaze.

“What is your name?” pursued our hero, who did not like the youngster’s
looks at all.

“Hans Weichel, sir.”

“What is your father’s name?”

“Hans Weichel, sir?”

Robert smiled at the boy’s concise replies, and said:

“Well, we will not wait for this crowd to get out; we can go out through
the chapel.”

And turning, they went through another large room, then down some steps,
and thus reached the street.

The boy led Robert away from the town, down toward the sea, where there
were several little cottages in which fishermen lived. They passed these
and walked on some distance before Robert noticed where he was going, so
deeply was he engaged in thought, wondering at his darling’s unexpected
presence that day.

At length, on looking up, he saw only the vast expanse of the sea upon
one side of him, and on the other great, rocky cliffs, rising high
against the sky in somber and majestic grandeur; while behind him,
nearly half a mile distant, was the town, and the great buildings of the
institute.

Turning suddenly to his guide, he said, sternly:

“Where are you leading me?”

“We are most there,” answered the boy, somewhat confusedly. “Just beyond
that clump of trees is the house.”

“Are you sure the gentleman told you to come to this place?” pursued
Robert, somewhat suspiciously.

“Yes, sir; he said he did not like noise, and wanted to be where he
could see the ocean, and be quiet,” replied young Hans, with evident
truth.

Robert knew his father could not bear confusion, and that he loved the
sea, though he could not help wondering that he should choose such a
very remote abode, and rather an unsafe one, too, for there were reports
abroad that a band of smugglers was concealed somewhere about the ledge
of rocks, which they were gradually approaching.

However, he continued to follow the boy, and soon came in sight of a
neat little cottage, painted white, and both quickening their steps,
soon arrived before the door.

The boy gave three sharp raps upon it, and it was immediately opened by
a rough-looking man, who bade them enter.

Robert’s suspicions were now fully aroused, and he demanded if a man by
the name of Ellerton was waiting for him there.

The man replied that there was, and Robert, with a rather doubtful air,
entered.

In an instant the door was shut and barred. A heavy hand was laid upon
his shoulder, while a pistol covered his heart, and the same rough voice
said:

“Make the least disturbance, and you are a dead man.”

“What means this violence, villain?” demanded Robert, thoroughly
alarmed.

“It means that you are my prisoner.”

“For what offense?”

“Oh, you will know all in good time, my proud youngster,” replied Hans
Weichel, senior, with a coarse laugh.

“If it is my money or watch you want, you are welcome to them, only do
not detain me, for my friends are anxiously waiting for me,” said
Robert, thinking he could bribe the man.

“Not quite so fast, my young lark; I care nothing for your purse or
baubles, but you are not to see your friends at present.”

“Why, I demand to know?”

“Why? Oh, because one of your very particular friends forbids it,”
replied Hans, again laughing disagreeably.

“Take that, then, for your insolence, you rascal,” shouted Robert,
suddenly dealing the man a heavy blow upon the temple.

He fell to the floor with a groan, then quick as lightning Robert turned
to unfasten the door to escape.

Before he could draw the bolt, his arms were pinioned from behind, while
at the same moment a heavy cloak was thrown over his head, completely
blinding him and smothering his cries.

It was done so quietly and quickly that he was amazed, for he had
supposed there were no others in the house, though now he heard several
voices; but all spoke in low tones.

He was borne through the house, then down some steps. And now he heard
some one stamp three times upon the ground. Immediately there was a
grating sound, as if a heavy door was swinging upon its hinges. He was
then borne within what seemed to be an underground passage, for he felt
the air cool and damp, even through the fold of the heavy cloak, and he
shuddered, for he was now convinced that he was in the hands of the
smugglers, though for what purpose he could not conceive. He did not
know that he had an enemy in all Germany, and the words of the rough
brute who met him at the door were a mystery to him.

After proceeding through the several passages, and what appeared to be
secret doors, he was at length set down, and the cloak removed from his
head.

A flash of dazzling light blinded him for a moment, but when he opened
his eyes again, he looked around him in utter amazement.

He found himself in one of the richest and most gorgeous apartments he
had ever entered in his life; in fact, the whole room was one bower of
beauty and luxury, like unto a very modern palace.

At one end of the room stood a magnificent piano; also a harp of gold
set with pearls.

The ceiling, as our hero glanced above, was dazzling as the sun, from
which chandeliers of gold, crystal, and bronze hung suspended.

The man who had brought him to this fairy bower had unbound him
immediately upon entering, and then disappeared, uttering no word of
explanation, neither seeming to have any fear about leaving him alone.

He had not finished the inspection of his surroundings when the heavy
tapestry suddenly parted near him, and a boy, clad as a page, entered,
bearing a silver tray, upon which a most tempting repast was arranged.

This he placed upon a small table, and then wheeled it in front of
Robert, after which he went and stood behind his chair, waiting to obey
his slightest wish.

Despite his wonder at this strange adventure, he was very faint, and set
himself to eat the savory viands with the keenest relish. There were
fragrant coffee and choice wines, and luxurious fruits, which, added to
the more substantial viands, made a meal a royal prince might envy.

Again the heavy tapestry parted, and a lovely girl, clothed in heavy
white silk and gauzy lace, looped with scarlet trimmings, entered, and,
seating herself gracefully at the piano, made the grand room echo again
and again with the sweetest music.

Was he dreaming a fairy dream? Or had some knavish sprite—a “Puck”
perchance—bewitched his eyes, that he should see such marvelous sights,
and deem them reality.

He questioned the page; but he might have been a breathless statue, for
all the reply he got was a cold, calm glance from a pair of pale blue
eyes.

He finished his meal, convinced that the mystery must remain a mystery
still, and the page bore away the tray, while at the same time the
lovely nymph at the piano glided as noiselessly away as she had come.

Soon another page entered, and bade Robert follow him. He could but
obey; besides, his curiosity was excited to explore still farther this
underground palace, with its beauteous maidens, secret passages, and
elegant appointments.

The youth led him through spacious halls, hung like the room he had just
left, with tapestry, and lighted by chandeliers of strange forms and
devices, until at length stopping, he parted some rich and heavy
curtains, and bade our hero enter.

The page then turned and disappeared.

Robert found himself in a chamber scarcely less elegant than the room he
had just left. A luxurious bed stood at one side, and was hung with
curtains of white silk, looped with cord and tassels of gold.

The room contained everything that the most fastidious could desire,
either for comfort or luxury. Books, richly bound, were scattered in
profusion upon a marble table, and it being early in the evening, Robert
amused himself an hour or two with these, and then retired to rest; and
being much fatigued with the efforts of the day, he slept soundly until
morning.